It can be a very complicated thing, the ocean.	海洋是一个非常复杂的事物。
Adult males: a huge load.	成年雄性体内的含量巨大。
Juveniles: a huge load.	幼年海豚体内也有很大含量。
Females after their first calf is already weaned: a lower load.	雌性在第一次哺乳期之后含量稍低。
And some of those whale meat samples were whale meat.	一部分鲸鱼肉样本确实是鲸鱼肉。
But some of them were not whale meat at all.	但是有一些就根本不是鲸鱼肉。
We had these data a few years ago.	几年前的一天我们得出的这些数据。
Not very often. We wouldn't tolerate that.	不常见吧？我们不能容忍这种事情。
These vibrios, these bacteria, can actually infect people.	那些弧菌和细菌确实可以感染人类。
They can go into your skin and create skin infections.	它们可以进入皮肤并造成皮肤感染。
These same infections create harmful algal blooms.	这些传染源使得有害藻类大量繁殖。
Those blooms are generating other kinds of chemicals.	繁殖会产生其他的化学物质。
What do you do when you have this sort of disrupted flow?	该怎么处理这种流通不畅的问题呢？
You could call Joe the Plumber, for example.	例如，可以叫水管工来修理。
The canneries are gone. The pollution has abated.	罐头工厂迁走了，污染也减轻了。
But they agreed to go along with it for a while.	但是他们同意看看发展再说
This is a cardboard model, a little bit smaller than the hyena.	是个纸板模型比鬣狗稍小一点
We used a bit of laser cutting on the plywood and some of the aluminum pieces.	我们用激光切割压合板和一些铝片
And now we would like to introduce you to Joey.	现在我们想为大家介绍乔伊
But he also controls the head directly by using his hand.	他也用他的手直接控制整个头部
And so it was a very practical reason why it was made of cane.	选用藤线还有一个很实际的原因
The guys inside the horse have to be able to see out.	马里面的表演者必须能够看得见外面
But now we would like you to put Joey through some paces.	现在我想让你们让乔伊跑起来
And in humans, we call it the "body clock."	就人类而言，我们称之为生物钟。
I don't know why they gave me so much.	不知道为什么他们给了我那么多。
We had a bowl of pretzels positioned off to the side.	我们在旁边放了一碗椒盐卷饼
So we're just tracking how many pretzels participants eat.	我们就是看看玩家吃了多少椒盐卷饼
I know it sounds like I'm making a joke.	我知道这听上去像我在讲笑话
So here's an example of how we did it.	下面我告诉大家我们是怎样做的
That's our confederate off to the left posing as a pedestrian.	左侧是我们的研究人员装作一个行人
Even people at the top experience these outcomes.	即使是在顶层的人也要遭受这些后果
I want to start with these word pairs here.	我想先是由这些词语的配对开始
This report is our main public report.	这是我们制作的最主要的公开报告
Now, this may surprise you.	这也许真的会让你感到吃惊
That's why I have one last thing I want to show you.	这是我希望给大家展示的最后一页
This is a newspaper publisher and a banker.	他们分别是保证出版商以及银行家
And, yes, they were great philanthropists.	他们也都是很优秀的慈善家
What is the story you most want for them to tell?	你希望他们会想起怎样一个故事？
One young woman brought her grandfather.	一位年轻女人带来她的爷爷。
A lot of sociologists actually are quite disappointed.	很多的社会学家的确对此很失望。
The first gentleman, he's a baker.	第一位绅士，他是一位面包师。
And I've heard this story a number of times.	而且我听说过这种故事很多次。
And now, obviously, they have it open.	现在，显然地，他们公开交流。
Whenever they have a moment they chat to each other.	每当他们有空闲，他们就互相交谈。
So, none of these cases are unique.	所以，这些例子枚不胜举。
But what is really exceptional is the setting.	但真正特别的是设定背景。
And it had nothing to do with technical capability.	它与技术能力没有任何关系。
They were living on top of the land they were laboring.	他们生活在他们耕耘的土地上。
Or maybe your mind was just entirely elsewhere.	或者也许你的大脑已经在神游
Does this sound familiar to you?	这些你们听起来有点熟悉吧？
Now, why would we want to do such a thing?	那么为什么我们想要做这样的事呢？
Well, there's two really good reasons for this.	嗯，有两个好的理由来解释
I must confess, there's kind of a third motivation as well.	我必须承认，还有第三个理由
Now watch, he has to downshift.	现在看看，他不得不换到低档。
Look for the tree, and down.	看清楚路旁的树，然后下坡。
I'm going to take you around now to the other side of the track.	我将带你绕到赛道的另外一半
So watch as John does this here.	所以看好约翰是怎么操作的
Watch the mental workload, and watch the steering.	看看他的脑负荷，和方向盘
Not a challenging task.	这不是一个具有挑战性的任务
In fact, entirely reflexive.	实际上，完全是条件的放射
But it's made us think a little bit more deeply as well.	它同时使我们从更深的层面去思考
What is the ideal balance of human and machine?	什么是人类和机器之间最理想的平衡
But I'm going to talk about L.A.'s water issues right now.	但是我要讲的是洛杉矶的用水问题。
That kind of technology is called "mountaintop removal."	这种开采技术叫做山顶煤炭开采法。
That's what my homegirl is doing.	我的这位姐妹正在忙这件事情。
I think that number's probably going to go up.	我认为这个数字目前仍然在上升。
The numbers just aren't there.	园艺在这些方面的作用不显著。
This is smart infrastructure.	这是非常精明的基础设施安排。
So I'm hoping you can see a little theme here.	希望大家能够看到这里有一个主题。
These examples indicate a trend.	这些事例反映了一个趋势。
And we all need to be invested in it.	而且，我们都必须参与进去。
So I'm not that unhappy about that.	对此，我并没有什么意见。
But I really did struggle for financial support.	我碰到了资金方面的问题。
But I did in fact get married in it.	我还在这里举行了婚礼呢。
There goes my dog who led me to the park in my wedding.	我的狗正把我牵到婚礼举行的地点。
Hometown security is next on my to-do list.	"国土安全"就是我的下一步行动。
And I came from a very privileged background. I was very lucky.	我非常幸运地诞生于一殷实之家。
Didn't have to worry about earning money.	我不再需要为挣钱汲汲度日；
Didn't have to worry about what people thought about me.	不再需要担心其他人是怎么看我的。
Yves showed one of the power-generating devices.	维斯演示了其中的一种发电设备。
Latin is relatively rare, too. You just look at some of the languages.	拉丁语的也很少见。看看这些语言，
And this will become the standard Ethiopian keyboard.	这将成为标准埃塞俄比亚语键盘。
The camel smells were unbelievable.	但骆驼的味道简直难以置信。
The president of Ethiopia said he would do it.	再接下来是埃塞俄比亚总统。
I want you do something else.	但我想让你们做一些其他的事情。
Get your friends to give one, get one.	让你的朋友也来买二捐一。
So actually now on this website, we have 18,000 people.	现在这个网站上有一万八千人
And we're building upon innovations of generations who went before us.	我们在前人的基础上发明创造
And we're looking ahead at generations who really need us to retool our lives now.	并为了后人重新设计我们现在的生活
And in fact I think that's going to be a lot sooner than that.	实际上我认为这个进程还要快得多。
We'll just put some crap here.	让我们在这儿放点乱七八糟的东西。
On board that robot is a PC running Linux.	它的控制电脑系统是Linux。
So now I brought this up in front of him.	所以，现在我把这个放在他的面前。
And I'm doing this task here, and he's checking up.	我在做这件事情，而他在检查。
I didn't show you how to do that.	我并没有给你演示应该怎么做。
It looks for highly saturated colors, from toys.	它能够识别玩具的高度饱和色。
And so these weights change.	因此这些权重会发生变化。
And it's got a little bit of an emotional response here.	这里他有一点点的情绪反应。
RB: And the robot's reacting appropriately.	这个机器人的反应非常好。
These are naive subjects.	这些只是比较幼稚的话题。
When we talk to someone, we talk.	当我们跟某人谈话时，我们就谈话。
It was just saying random English phonemes.	他仅仅发出一些英语音节。
I want to show you my watch."	我想给你看看我的手表。"
Well, do you ever need to give robots respect?	那么，你是否需要给予机器人尊重？
They want to take over from us.	他们希望从我们手中接管世界。
But remember, Greece is there today.	不过记住，这是希腊今天的水平。
Why don't we lower both lines?	为什么我不同时压缩支出和税率呢？
But that system has tons of problems.	不过这个系统有成堆的问题。
But let me explain what I'm thinking.	不过让我来解释一下我的想法。
Social Security is fairly easy to fix.	社会保障是相当容易解决。
We're not open to a discussion of eliminating it.	我们不是公开讨论取消它。
That's a more partisan area.	这是一个更有党派之争的区域。
None of these major theories have been completely successful.	这两个学派理论都没有取得完全胜利
What has changed is how people respond to vague questions.	改变的是人们如何应对模糊的问题。
We had the battle between Jefferson and Hamilton.	我们有杰斐逊和汉密尔顿的论战。
The Fed can't mess it up so badly.	美联储不能搞的如此糟糕。
Each of those times, we were on the verge of complete collapse.	上述时刻，我们都处在崩溃边缘。
And what this guy had done: he used to produce these fabulously beautiful watches.	这位制表匠做了很多精美的手表
Now you probably know the answer to this already.	也许你现在已经知道了答案
I remember sitting there thinking, this is fantastic.	我记得我坐在那儿想，心想这太棒了
I thought, well what the hell's that about?	我想，这到底是为什么呢？
Do you know what it is? Anyone?	你知道这是什么吗？有人知道吗？
You see, using this bit, the thinky bit, the slow bit of the brain -- using that.	想一想，想一下用大脑的思维功能
I don't need you to think so much as I want you to feel it.	我不希望你想太多，请感受吧。
I felt a sense of relaxation tempered with anticipation.	我感受到一种带着关注的放松感
And that thing that I found was the cinema or the theater.	我发现的就是电影院或者剧院
Everybody likes it, but some like it more than others.	每个人都喜欢但有些人更喜欢一些
So this leads me to think of this in a different way.	这让我从另外一个角度思考这个问题
This is one of the most beautiful things I know.	这是我所知道的最美妙的事情之一
And all of a sudden, this plastic bag was extremely beautiful to me.	突然这个袋子变的如此美妙
Now I'm going to ask you again to switch on the emotional bit.	我想再次要求你们用感情体味
Look at the innocence. Look at the beauty in it.	看看其中的童真看看它的美
Because I have to know how people react to things.	因为我必须知道人们对事物如何反应
The eyebrows are doing this, the eyes are defocused, and the mouth is hanging open.	眉毛是这样，眼神散乱嘴唇微张
So pleasure seems to be tempered by a whole series of different things coming in.	愉悦混合着一系列不同的情感
Very hard to find. Maybe you've got some examples of it.	这非常少见也许有一些例子
And they found that it was almost exact coincidence.	结果发现几乎是非常巧合的
Now I can feel a sensation of delight and beauty if I look at that eye.	看着眼睛的话我能感受到愉快和美
I can't tell you how wonderful this is.	我无法形容这部分有多美妙
So it's more expensive, but it's wonderful.	虽然这样造价高但性能更棒
The bit that you can't see is the genius that created this.	只是你们无法见到这位天才设计者
There's so little compromise on this, you can't see it.	这几种身分相互并不大兼容
I've had to move that part across, but only a millimeter.	我把那部分只移动了一毫米
I moved three things by a millimeter.	我把三个部位各移动了一毫米
No one's going to notice those split lines and changes.	没人会注意这些切线和变化
It's lovely because it is an embodiment of something refreshing and delicious.	它美是因为它装着清爽可口的东西
It's a fantastic example, a simple object.	这是个神奇的例子，一个简单的物体
And the one I showed you before was, of course, a massively complex one.	之前看到的那个摩托是个复杂的物体
And they're working in beauty in slightly different ways because of it.	因此它们以略微不同的方式体现了美
And part of the joy of it is, you know the difficulty.	一部分愉悦感是因为深知其不易
You also may be taking into account the fact that it's incredibly painful.	可能你也会考虑到其饱含的痛苦
That blip, that information, shot into you before that.	这一瞬间你获得了这个信息
And finally, the layer that I love, of knowledge.	最后，是我热爱的知识的层次
What I try to pursue now is the emotional functionality of things.	我追求的是事物的感官功能性
I really like looking at old churches.	还非常喜欢那些古老的教堂
Until now, these people have faced a rather unpleasant choice.	直到现在，他们一直都非常为难
I don't think we have to make that choice.	但我觉得我们不必去做这些选择
We have secularized badly, I would argue.	我觉得许多人都被严重地世俗化了
Now I think that's a very beautiful idea and a very true idea.	我觉得这想法是非常美妙真实的
They wanted to replace scripture with culture.	他们想用文化积淀来代替圣典
It's also an idea that we have forgotten.	但这也是一个我们已经忘却了的想法
They see us as adults, rational adults.	他们觉得我们是有逻辑讲道理的大人
We need data, we don't need help.	只需要资料根本不需要帮助
And so we need guidance and we need didactic learning.	所以我们需要指引需要言教
Now we've given up with the idea of sermons.	现在我们摒弃了说教的方式
And I think we need to get back to that sermon tradition.	我觉得我们有必要找回传教的习俗
So religions are cultures of repetition.	所以宗教培养我们重复、温习的美德
They circle the great truths again and again and again.	宗教重复伟大的真理一遍又一遍
"Give us the new," we're always saying.	我们一直说:"说点新鲜的"
All the major religions give us calendars.	所有主流宗教都会有特定的日历
Take the Moon. It's really important to look at the Moon.	就像月亮看月亮是非常重要的
It sets things into perspective, etc., etc.	这帮助你从不同角度看世界
But the religious world doesn't think that way.	但是在宗教世界里不是这样的
And we'd know that we had a real rhythm going.	我们都知道你们会说的很好
And when they teach us a lesson, they do it via the body.	所以他们通过身体来教会我们道理
So for example, take the Jewish idea of forgiveness.	举个例子像是犹太人懂得宽容
They don't just deliver us sermons on this.	他们不仅仅通过传教来告诉我们
They don't just give us books or words about this.	也不仅仅给我们书本去学习
Our ideas are in one area and our behavior with our bodies is in another.	我们的身体和智慧在不同的世界里
Religions are fascinating in the way they try and combine the two.	而宗教却把智慧和躯体结合起来
A lot of our surplus wealth goes to museums, etc.	许多盈余的钱财都花在了艺术馆里
I couldn't disagree more.	我十分十分不赞同这个想法
But that feeling of puzzlement is structural to contemporary art.	但正是那样的感觉构造了当代艺术
Now religions have a much saner attitude to art.	现在宗教对艺术有了很多理智的态度
Firstly, it's trying to remind you of what there is to love.	第一艺术告诉你这世界有爱
Art is a visceral encounter with the most important ideas of your faith.	艺术表达了你内心最重要的信仰
Rembrandt is a propagandist in the Christian view.	在基督教看来伦勃朗是个宣传者
Now the word "propaganda" sets off alarm bells.	现在"宣传"一词让人们警觉
Propaganda is a manner of being didactic in honor of something.	这只是一个宣扬某种东西的手段
My view is that museums should take a leaf out of the book of religions.	我觉得艺术馆应该向宗教学习
All works of art are talking to us about things.	所有的艺术品都有相同的主题
And they tend to be on their own.	他们凭自己的力量生存下去
They're our cottage industries. They are vulnerable, single people.	他们独立完成工作他们脆弱孤单
Now think about religions, think about organized religions.	现在想想那些有组织的宗教
They group together, they form institutions.	他们聚在一起他们创造机构
If you're involved, say, in a travel industry in any way, look at pilgrimage.	如果你和旅游业有关去参考朝圣
Incoming missiles from North Oxford at any moment.	任何时候都会被北牛津的导弹打趴
One wants to say, "Nonsense. Why not?"	有人会说"胡扯为什么不呢"
Politeness is a much-overlooked virtue.	有时候礼貌都被我们忽视了
I've sketched a sort of broad framework.	我只是大概地勾勒出一个结构
And that feeling hasn't left me yet.	这种感觉到现在都萦绕在我脑海里。
And, among other things, they're looking for dark matter.	寻找暗物质正是他们其中一项任务。
And this is the scene that greeted me when I landed there.	这也正是我到达后迎接我的景象
And they have dedicated their lives to it.	然而他们却倾注了他们全部的生命。
It's very harsh conditions.	这样的条件是非常艰苦的。
They work on a shoestring budget.	他们的预算是极其有限的。
Here's another view of the same.	这是另外的一个望远镜的图像。
Finally, I want to take you to Antarctica.	最后，我想让大家看看南极洲。
And that's taking us to McMurdo.	就是它把我们带去了麦克默多。
And you barely might be able to make out this hut here.	你几乎无法辨认出这就是小屋。
The fabric alone weighs two tons.	气球的组成物自己就有两顿重。
That's the kind of dedication these people have.	这就是这些人具有的献身精神。
And both require silence of some sort.	二者都需要一份宁静的力量。
One is what's on the Boston Public Library.	一块位于波士顿公共图书馆。
And the idea of using technology is perfect for us.	运用现代科技是十分理想的。
I think we have the opportunity to one-up the Greeks.	我认为我们有机会超越希腊人。
It is, by far and away, the largest print library in the world.	它是目前世界上最大的出版物图书馆
That's pretty neat.	而且这样存放是非常简洁的
We actually went off to make a bookmobile.	我们曾经做过一个流动图书馆
It was quite popularly attended.	它的出现受到了人们的欢迎
And it actually -- so technologically, it works.	从技术角度来讲，这一切都实现了
But how do you go about doing all this scanning?	但，你怎么去做那些扫描工作？
But do things that you love.	但，一定要去做那些你喜欢做的事
And we sort of picked the price point of 10 cents a page.	我们给出的参考价格是每页10美分
This is what it looks like at the University of Toronto.	多伦多大学正在做的就是这样的事情
So we're starting to get the institutional responsibility.	我们已经开始得到机构的信任了
So all in all, that's going very well.	总起来说，所有事情进展得很顺利
Exactly what loaning means, I'm not quite sure.	具体借阅的方式，我也不是很清楚
But we've found that the rights issues are really quite thorny.	我们发现关于版权的问题是很棘手的
So we've digitized those and made those available.	我们将其数字化处理，并发布到网上
And we've got, now, a lot of these materials.	我们现在已经收集了很多这样的资料
Well, we're best known as the World Wide Web.	我们国家最为有名的是万维网
Mostly, people want to see their old stuff out of this.	大部分人是希望看到他们以往的页面
There's a political and social question out of this.	此时就会出现一个政治和社会问题
I'd like for you to picture it in your mind.	我愿意为你描述一下它的样子。
Adoration and admiration will overwhelm you.	你的内心将充盈着爱慕之情。
It will redefine your sense of spirituality and faith.	你会重新定义灵性和信仰的看法。
You'll eat countless gourmet meals.	你将享用无尽的美酒佳肴；
And you'll have a lifetime supply of good drugs.	你还会得到吃不完的好药。
Your life will have new meaning.	你的生命将被赋予新的意义。
$55,000, and that's an incredible deal.	五万五千美金。这真是一笔好买卖。
This gift came to me about five months ago.	我大概是五个月前得到这份礼物的。
But I wouldn't change my experience.	但是我不会希望这一切再次发生。
I think that vote is occurring right now.	我想选举现在就正在进行。
And frankly, I face a big obstacle.	坦率地说我面临很大的障碍。
But here is a mushroom that's past its prime.	但这个蘑菇已经过了它的顶盛期，
After they sporulate, they do rot.	在它们形成孢子后就腐烂了。
And so we see a mushroom here sporulating.	我们在这看到蘑菇在长孢子菌，
We exhale carbon dioxide, so does mycelium.	我们呼出二氧化碳，菌丝也是这样。
But these are essentially externalized stomachs and lungs.	但这些基本上是外在的胃和肺。
And inside these wells, then microbial communities begin to form.	在这些小孔中，微生物群开始形成。
When you look at the mycelium, they're highly branched.	你仔细看菌丝，它们有很多分支。
Going way out, dark matter conforms to the same mycelial archetype.	暗物质符合同一菌丝体原型，
Prototaxites, laying down, was about three feet tall.	原杉藻属，放倒了也有3英尺高。
Across the landscapes of Earth were dotted these giant mushrooms.	当时地球上都布满了这种巨大的蘑菇
Sunlight was cut off, and fungi inherited the Earth.	阳光被阻断，真菌遗留在地球上。
They're showing how much nutrition that they could've obtained.	它们显示了它们能够获得多少养料。
And I'll show you a graph here.	我在这给你们看一张图表。
This is a logarithmic scale, 10 to the eighth power.	这是一个对数标度，10的8次方。
We found one sample to be able to get into culture.	我们发现一例可以进行培养。
And a few years ago, we received these results.	几年前我们得到了这些结果。
Our mushroom strains were in the highly active range.	我们的蘑菇系属于非常活跃。
I was able to morph the culture into a non-sporulating form.	我可以把菌丝培养为非孢子形式。
It's been called an Alexander Graham Bell patent.	叫做亚历山大格雷厄姆贝尔专利——
These are a species that we need to join with.	有新的物种我们需要合作。
I think engaging mycelium can help save the world.	我认为菌丝可有助于拯救世界。
I mean, what is a biosphere?	我指的是，什么是一个生态圈。
We needed to know, is life this malleable?	我们想知道，生命是可延续的吗？
So eight of us went in: four men and four women.	所以我们8个人进去了，4男4女。
It was essentially an organic farm.	实际上就是一个有机农场。
And we ate an awful lot of the sweet potatoes.	而且我们吃了无数的红薯。
I was eating myself in some strange sort of bizarre way.	说地奇怪点，我在不停地吃我自己。
We stopped irrigating our soil, as much as we could.	我们尽可能的灌溉我们的土壤。
And it was like playing atomic hide-and-seek.	这就像和原子在躲猫猫一样。
And everybody outside thought we were dying.	外面的人以为你是快死了。
But in fact he was the person who was most susceptible to the oxygen.	但实际上他才识几乎缺氧的那个人。
And one day he couldn't add up a line of figures.	有一天，他几乎不能做简单的算术。
And it was time for us to put oxygen in.	那也就到了我们放氧气进来的时候。
Yes. In a sense it was terrifying.	是的，某一点上，那很可怕。
And we proved the concept, more or less.	我们多多少少证明了这个构思可行。
We all went quite nuts, I will say.	我会说我们都变的有点傻了。
For two years I'd been seeing people through the glass.	两年来，我都是通过玻璃来看人。
And everybody ran up to me.	而且所有的人都朝我涌来。
And I recoiled. They stank!	我被吓了一跳，他们臭死了！
I had been growing all my own food.	我一直在种植我们自己的粮食。
And so we sent one onto the Mir Space Station.	所以我们向穆里空间站发送了一个，
They pour huge amounts of pollutants into the ocean.	他们往海洋里排放大量的污染。
They had created an industrial ecosystem, of a sense.	他们创造了一种环保工业系统。
And I think often times people get lost in that.	而且我常常认为人们会在那迷失掉。
And I would say that the small stuff counts. It really does.	但我会说小事情也会有影响，真的。
This is the story of a rake in my backyard.	这是我后花园一个耙子的故事。
This is actually in a riparian area.	这里其实是一个河岸的区域。
And as you breathe, think about what is in your breath.	同时思考一下，你的呼吸里有什么。
It also connects us in time.	呼吸也将我们从时间上联系起来。
Doctors and medicine made no difference at all.	医生和药物的作用无关紧要
Beyond these sorts of things, a medical doctor didn't have a lot that they could do.	除此之外医师能做的事并不多
It's a terrible design strategy actually.	这其实是个很糟糕的战略设计
And then you need to focus on the killer items.	你一定要关注一些至关重要的项目
So we did this.	因此我们也效仿了他们的做法
And although I highly encourage you, all use honey.	虽然我大力支持你们使用蜂蜜。
And of course, they're made to carry this pollen.	当然，它们生下来就是搬运花粉的。
However, honeybees are a minority.	尽管如此，蜜蜂只是少数派。
They're like tiny little flies and they fly around.	它们就像小苍蝇一样到处飞。
And so we need to rethink this idea.	所以我们需要重新审视这一做法。
So thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much.	好！非常感谢大家光临。非常感谢。
I whistled alone. I whistled in the classroom.	我有时独自吹，有时在教室吹，
So, okay, I'm going to America.	所以，好吧，我要去美国啦！
I would love to, but why?	我很想去，但是为什么去呢？
I don't know if that's correct English.	我不知道这么用英语说对不对。
And she thought, "He will never go there."	她想，"他不会去参加的。"
And actually I earn my money whistling at the moment.	事实上我现在靠吹口哨赚钱。
So I quit my day job as a nurse.	于是我辞去了护士的工作。
Okay, I'm not the only one whistling here.	各位，我并不是在场唯一吹口哨的。
Well actually, you are going to whistle along.	好的，事实上，大家要一起吹。
Why? Can I go away?"	为什么要这样？我可以走吗？"
I'll ask the technicians to start the music.	我请技术人员放一下音乐。
Sometimes I go browsing [through] a very old magazine.	以前，在浏览一本很旧的杂志时，
Some of them are about the animals, the number.	其中的一些是有关动物数量的。
The "Homo studiosus" -- the studying man.	而是"智人"——读书人。
They are much more sophisticated in sensing than animals.	在感知方面，它们比动物更加高级。
They have just a kind of very low-level soul.	它们不过是非常低级的灵魂，
But plants are also able to show a lot of movement.	但植物还可以表现出很多种运动。
Some of them are very well known, like the flowering.	其中一些是人所共知的，比如开花。
They are also able to play -- they are really playing.	它们也玩耍，它们真的会玩耍。
It's the same in plants, in insects and in animals.	在植物、昆虫和动物中，毫无差别。
This is a serious business.	这是一项严肃的"生意"。
How is it possible to do this without a brain?	没有大脑，如何能够实现这一切？
They work in the same way.	它们有着相同的工作方式。
They have computing power, they have electrical signals.	植物有计算力，也有电子信号，
She's being filmed with a hidden camera.	一个隐蔽摄像头纪录了这一切
It's about 30 degrees outside.	当时室外温度大概是零下一度
So she's noticed the unusual thing, but she's gone back to her normal life.	她注意到奇怪的事但很快恢复常态
And she decides to be a little bit more aware of her surroundings.	决定看看到底是怎么一回事
And there was a girl in one of the windows and she was dancing.	有一个橱窗前一个女孩在跳舞
We didn't let the stores know we were coming.	我们不想商场知道我们的计划
The second signal was for everybody to do Jumping jacks together.	第二个指示是每个人做踢腿跳
And then we had dance solos where only one person would dance and everybody would point to them.	接下来就是独舞所有人就都指着他们
We had people jumping up and down, people dropping to the ground.	有的上下蹦跳有的摔倒地上
I think I'll try to do that this weekend. Thank you."	这周末我就会努力实行，谢谢！"
There was an eight year-old girl, a 10 year-old girl.	有八岁的女孩，十岁的女孩
Now you can see the regular employees by the ones that have the yellow tags on their shirt.	正式职员的T恤上是有黄色牌子的
That's a cop wearing black right there, being filmed with a hidden camera.	一个隐蔽摄像头拍到了这个警察
One thing the managers were trying to do was to track down our cameras.	经理尝试要追查我们的相机
So this was in the winter of 2009 -- 8:30 in the morning.	这是2009年冬天－早上八点半
So there's a photograph that illustrates it a little bit better.	另外一张照片照的比较好点
And we're never given a reason why we should play.	却从来没问我们为什么要玩
And I think that's sort of the point of Improv Everywhere.	我想这就是"随处即兴"想要表达的
And I think, as adults, we need to learn that there's no right or wrong way to play.	作为成年人我们要认识到玩无止尽
It doesn't require any special training.	它不需要操作者受过任何特别培训
It's a quite wonderfully designed animal.	奶牛的构造其实是很精彩的
And then it became domesticated thousands of years ago.	人类在数千年前驯化了它们
And as long as you teach them that, you can teach them anything else you like.	只要你教了这些你再教什么都行
That, I think, is maximal tolerance for religious freedom.	这是我认为给予宗教自由的最大空间
But also let them know about other religions.	同时也让孩子了解其他的宗教信仰
Now why do I say that?	为什么我会提出这个观点？
It's like a coin flip; it doesn't count really.	就像掷骰子做决定一样没有意义
Democracy depends on informed consent.	民主制度以"知情同意"为基石
This is the way we treat people as responsible adults.	视人民为能承担责任的成年人
Now, children below the age of consent are a special case.	不过，未成年的孩子们是特例
All I'm saying is -- facts. Facts only.	我只提倡老师教真实的知识
Another reviewer called it "hilarious."	另一个评论家说我的观点"很可笑"
They're a sort of ectosymbiont.	这是一种生态上讲的共生关系
There's a lot of serendipitous convergence here.	人和羊之间有很多偶然发生的交集
How clever it was of sheep to acquire shepherds!	羊竟然聪明到和牧羊人一同生活！
The only cost in most flocks is a loss of free mating.	唯一的成本是不能自由交配
But it was a very clever move.	但这的确是个很聪明的举动
It was a clever move of natural selection itself.	是"自然选择"本身的聪明举动
Now, that is not Intelligent Design -- not from Francis Crick.	克里克指的当然不是"智慧设计"
Again and again biologists are fascinated with the brilliance of what's discovered.	一次又一次让生物学家叹为观止
And I think some people may have misunderstood.	但是我觉得有些人可能误解了
They're not really bright. They don't have to be.	它们并不聪明，也用不着变聪明
It was great for their genetic fitness.	驯养对他们的基因适应极有好处
Yesterday, in biological terms.	在生物史上就像昨天一样近
That is what we have done on this planet.	这就是我们在这个星球上做的
And he gave me a paper that he had written on this.	他给了我一篇他写的这个题目的论文
We now wield the paintbrush."	此刻我们掌握了那支创造的画笔
Suppose Martian scientists came to Earth.	设想若有一天火星科学家来到了地球
Does that ever happen to us?	这些事在人类身上发生过吗？
Yes, it does -- quite wonderfully.	是的，发生过，而且相当神奇
The word of God is the seed and the sower of the seed is Christ."	"上帝的话是种子，播种的是基督"
Same idea! Well, not quite.	相似的道理，不过不完全是
But in fact, Christians, too, glory in the fact that they have surrendered to God.	事实上，基督徒以顺从上帝为光荣
Just exactly what Al is trying to do, Rick is doing.	戈尔想做的事情，华里克已经做了
And, the means -- how does he do it?	方法--他是怎么做到的呢？
Because I'm absolutely sincere in my appreciation of all that I've said about this book.	因为我发自肺腑地欣赏这本书
But I wish it were better.	因此希望这本书能变得更好
I have some problems with the book.	我对书中的内容有几个问题
Here's a passage -- it's very much what he said, anyway.	这里我以书里的一段话为例
But that is just a difference of opinion.	但是这只是一个意见上的分歧
Well, that's Michael Denton. He's a creationist.	这是创造论者迈克尔登顿说的
Is he endorsing creationism here?"	还是在主张【创造论】？"
He carefully mixed the DNA cocktail that created you."	他费心调配出基因组合创造了你。"
There might be some way of treating that as true.	说不定在某些情况下可以成立吧
Whose truth are we going to listen to?	问题是我们要相信谁的真理？
It's a very clever adaptation of religions.	这是宗教非常聪明的应变之道
It's a wildcard for disarming any reasonable criticism.	是消除各种合理质疑的万能王牌
You've got a reasonable objection to it?	你有合理的反对理由是吗？
Here's one, not as beautiful as the others.	但是这一张并没有其它的漂亮
It seems to me that that's a very problematic ship to get on for the future.	如果我们这样做真是前景堪忧
In fact, all of you as you sit here right now are vibrating.	事实上，你们在座的各位都在振动。
Incidentally, we see just one octave.	然而，我们只能看到一个八度音阶。
They work even when you sleep.	即使在睡觉时，它们也在工作。
Reductive listening is listening "for."	删减性的倾听是有"选择"的听
You're having to imagine it.	你需要通过想象来弥补这个空白。
It's not good for you in the long run.	长期下去，会对健康不利。
The Elizabethans described language as decorated silence.	古人曾把语言比作修饰过的安静
Have a foreground, a background, all in beautiful proportion.	有前景有背景并且比例协调
Sound healing is a wonderful modality.	声音治疗法也是不错的方法
Devotional music, good -- Mozart, good.	虔诚的音乐不错莫扎特也不错
There are all sorts of types of music that are very healthy.	有各种各样的音乐十分利于健康
It's a whole new dimension to your life and it's wonderful to have that dimension.	这会是你们人生全新的、美好的一面
Secondly, get in touch with making some sound -- create sound.	第二试着自己弄出点声响创造声音
You can do this in groups as well.	也可以尝试和大家一起这样做
The Sun burns our peripheral vision.	强烈的阳光是如此地刺眼，
We see light reflected off the Moon.	我们能看到从月球反射回来的光，
But they won't come to us directly through light.	但它们不会通过光被我们发现。
It was Einstein's great general theory of relativity.	这就是爱因斯坦伟大的广义相对论。
Now even light will be bent by those paths.	甚至光的路径也会被弯折。
Now our Sun will not collapse to a black hole.	我们的太阳不会坍缩形成黑洞。
But basically that's what we're talking about.	但基本上这就是我们在讨论的东西。
They can be spinning hundreds of times a second.	它们每秒可以旋转数百次。
And they travel out into the cosmos at the speed of light.	这些振动以光速在太空中传播。
If it gets far away, it's a little too quiet.	如果它们距离很远，声音会非常小。
It's sort of like ding, ding, ding.	听起来就像，叮，叮，叮。
Luckily we're at this safe distance in Long Beach, California.	幸运的是我们在加州长滩非常安全。
They look like they're frozen in some embrace.	看起来它们像是静止地拥抱在一起。
That song has been ringing through space for all that time.	这声音一直以来都在时空中穿梭。
It's white noise; it's such a chaotic ringing.	这是一种白噪声，一种混乱的铃声。
Here's my multiverse creatures.	这是我们这个多元宇宙中生命。
And our prison system itself is stuck.	但是我们的监狱体系却自困一角
We know that trees are static entities when we look at their trunks.	我们知道光只看树干的话树是静止的
We are there to take pride and insist on respect.	我们对这些引以自豪坚持得到尊重。
And at the same time, we're fighting another battle.	同时，我们在抗争另一场战斗。
We pose a threat to the order of the government.	我们对政府的统治构成威胁。
For me, this became incredibly important.	对我而言，这变得异常重要。
And yet, I had an unusual position toward this.	对此，我还有一个异常的角色。
So my art became slightly more critical.	所以我的艺术变得更具评论性了。
I go everywhere to make believe it's Iran.	我所去任何地方使我相信这是伊朗。
It's a magical realist novel.	这是一部魔幻现实主义小说。
These are some of the images and the characters of the film.	这是一些图像和电影里的角色。
They're absolutely inspirational for me.	她们对我来说绝对是鼓舞人心的。
And once again, they proved themselves.	再一次地，她们证明了她们自身。
It cannot be consciously a contributor.	他无法成为一名主动贡献者。
It can't afford to doubt the person who tends the child.	他也没有能力质疑任何照顾他的人。
That implies a lot of trust.	这样的屈服中也包含着无比的信任，
The self: you are self-aware.	自我，你要能认识到自我。
Otherwise, compassion is just a word and a dream.	否则，同情心只是一虚物而已。
Thank God we are empathetic.	感谢上帝让我们都懂得去同情别人，
It can be anybody's game.	谁都有可能赢得最后的胜利，
What they have sweated so far has no meaning.	似乎之前流的汗都毫无意义了。
No human heart is denied of that empathy.	每个人都有这样的恻隐之心。
Why? Because it is there in everybody.	为什么？因为它只存乎于心。
It's experienced by people occasionally.	它时不时地被我们感受到。
By mandate, you cannot make a person compassionate.	你无法强迫一个人拥有同情心。
Then everything becomes meaningful.	你发现一切都变得有意义起来。
I have no more reason to blame myself.	我不再有责怪自己的理由。
Then that again transforms into giving, into sharing.	而同情心又能够转化成给予和分享。
You learn swimming by swimming. You learn cycling by cycling.	从游泳中学游泳，从骑车中学骑车。
You have to act compassionately.	必须实践如何去同情别人。
You act compassionately.	你要很有同情心的去做事情，
Let me act compassionately.	让我能真正有同情心的去做事情。
Notice, this is an aldehyde, and it's an alcohol.	注意看，这是羟基，这是一种酒精
Start differentiating into effector and memory cells.	开始分化为效应物和记忆细胞。
A galaxy. Hey, there's another galaxy.	这是星系，看，那边有另一个星系。
Oh look, there's another galaxy.	看，那边还有另一个星系。
The first was the feedback from my cousins.	首先是来自于我表弟们的反馈，
And these are just a few.	下面我们来看其中的一小部分。
This clearly was helping people.	很明显，这可以帮助别人。
This is just an excerpt from one of those letters.	下面是其中一封来信中的一小段
It was very strange for me to do something of social value.	很难想象我会为社会价值而去做事。
But I was excited, so I kept going.	我很是兴奋，于是我继续前进。
And then a few other things started to dawn on me.	接下来发生的一系列的事让我明白
It's good for motivated students.	它对积极性高的学生很有用。
But then I started getting letters from teachers.	然后，我开始收到老师的来信，
Now they're actually interacting with each other.	现在他们可以互相合作来完成作业。
The ones I started were much more primitive.	刚开始做的那些比这些更为原始，
And the Khan Academy videos are there.	所有Khan学院的视频都是这样。
But it's fundamentally different than what's happening in classrooms right now.	但这与现今课堂上的方式大为不同。
Stay on that bicycle. Fall off that bicycle.	确保在自行车上，从自行车上摔落，
We have about 90 of these right now.	我们现在有大约９０个这样的视频。
The inner circle shows the videos they're focused on.	内圈表示学生现在在观看的视频
And we're seeing it over and over and over again.	这种情况发生了一次又一次，
Tell me what you're thinking there.	谈谈你对这个问题的想法。
Once again, I didn't expect it to be used in classrooms.	我都没期望过它会被用在课堂上。
And they're doing it at the district level.	他们是从学区这个层面来做尝试的
So we made that focus diagram.	所以我们就制作了焦点图。
So it's all been teacher-driven.	这些都是由老师提出来的建议，
And seeing with the brain is often called imagination.	用大脑来看，也就是我们常说的想象
I see a white building. It's snowing, a soft snow.	有一栋白色的楼，天在下雪，小雪
Then, one night, the scene changes.	然后有一天晚上，幻象变了
I see cats and dogs walking towards me.	变成好多猫和狗朝我这边走
She said, "It's got color. It's got motion.	"它是有颜色的，还有动作
But it's completely silent, like a silent movie."	不过一点声音都没有，像默片。"
And none of the people or the animals, well, they all seemed oblivious of her.	里面的人和动物也好像看不见她
She wondered if she was going mad or losing her mind.	她想，她是疯了还是在失去理智
Well, I examined her carefully.	于是我为这个活泼的老太太
You have Charles Bonnet syndrome."	你只是得了这种邦纳症候群。"
Well, so I did tell the nurses.	于是我照她的意思告诉了护工们
Now this, for me, is a common situation.	其实这种现象对我来说并不稀奇
I see a lot of elderly people who are hearing impaired or visually impaired.	认识很多老人是听力或视力受损的
He'd had cataract surgery.	这个长官曾接受过白内障手术
It was a large blue handkerchief with four orange circles.	大大的，蓝色的还有四个橙色的圆圈
Another patient of mine had a different sort of hallucination.	还有一个病人，有另外一种幻觉
You know, I was wondering about Freudian determinants.	当时我正在研究弗洛伊德决定因素
Well, what is going on with these people?	那么，这些病人是怎么了？
There is none of this quality of being addressed with these Charles Bonnet hallucinations.	而这些都没有出现在邦纳式的幻觉中
You hear the traffic. All the senses are involved.	听到车来车往，所有的感官都参与着
And it's that Tuesday evening back in 1982.	那可能是1982年的某个周二夜晚
And one of the second commonest is cartoons.	一种第二常见的幻象是卡通
So, what is going on?	那么，究竟为什么会产生幻觉呢？
This is the part of the brain which perceives edges and patterns.	这是大脑感知边缘和图案的部分
"Face cells" were discovered around 1970.	"脸细胞"是1970年左右发现的
You don't get anywhere thinking of them as dreams.	把这种现象视作梦的一种是行不通的
You speak about these things with so much insight and empathy for your patients.	你说得非常精到也很能理解你的病人
Have you yourself experienced any of the syndromes you write about?	你自己有没有过这些症状呢？
And actually I'm a little visually impaired myself.	事实上我自己也有一定的视力受损
So I want to take you on a trip to an alien world.	我想带大家去一趟外星世界的旅行。
It's got a light organ under its eye.	在它的眼睛下有一个发光的器官。
The light organs under the eyes are flashing.	眼部下方的发光器官闪烁着。
This blinds or distracts the predator.	这会让捕食者失明或者受到干扰。
It's a green saber of light.	它发出着金属般的绿色的光。
This is an optical lure that I've used.	这是我曾用过的一个视觉诱饵。
But the cool thing is, we're talking to it.	但是有趣的事，我们和它在交谈。
We don't know what we're saying.	我们不知道我们说了些什么。
Personally, I think it's something sexy.	个人觉得，这是一些性感的东西。
We've only just begun to analyze all of this data.	我们已经开始分析所有的这些数据。
And it does actually seem to be trying to eat the electronic jellyfish.	它的确在试着吃掉这个电子水母。
That's a 12-foot-long giant sixgill shark.	这是只12尺长，巨大的灰六鳃鲨。
It's supposed to be attacking what's attacking the jellyfish.	它本应当要去攻击那个水母。
This guy is a little more contemplative.	这家伙需要更多时间思考。
We need more eyes on the process.	我们需要对流程有更多的关注。
But I warn you, it's addictive.	但是，我警告大家，这是会上瘾的。
And by tiny, I mean really.	说到小呢，我的意思是真小
The perception in the 17th century was the Moon was a perfect heavenly sphere.	17世纪的感知月亮是个完美的天球
So this is a transection through blood.	这是通过血液的一个横断面
And the red region is a slice into a red blood cell.	这个红色区是一个红血球的切片
So we're not going to be able to do that today?	所以今天我们能不能讲那么细呢？
No, I'm being told, "No."	不能的，我被告知，不能的
This is the way a living cell looks down a light microscope.	这里是在光学显微镜下看到的活细胞
When the cell feels it's ready to go, it rips apart the chromosome.	当细胞准备好了，它就脱离染色体
One is bundled up into one sausage.	一条卷起来进到一条香肠里
The other strand is bundled up into the other sausage.	另一条卷起来进到另一条香肠里
They're called mircrotubules. That name's not important.	他们称作微管。名字并不重要
We have no idea really as to how it's achieving that movement.	我们也搞不懂它到底是怎么运动的
It's also an attention sensing system.	它也是个能感觉注意力的系统
It's turning green here because it feels that everything is just right.	这里变成绿色因为它感觉样样都对
And you'll see, there's this one little last bit that's still remaining red.	你会看到，这里有一点点还是红色
And it's walked away. I mean, it's that mechanical.	它走开了，我的意思是，它是机械的
This is how you work at the molecular scale.	这就是在分子比例层的工作
And they've got their long legs so they can step around obstacles and so on.	它们有长长的腿，能跨越障碍物
Humanity is now fully into the techno-scientific age.	人类文明已完全进入技术科学时代,
They didn't teach it before then.	在那之前他们没有这门课．
I swallowed my pride, and I learned calculus.	我收敛了我的骄傲学习了微积分
And again, new forms of wealth emerged.	此外，各种新的财富模式也兴起了。
I don't think we know enough yet.	我认为我们知道的还远远不够。
This is all about self-interest that adds up to more.	这全是自我利益最大化的例子。
I believe that the payoff would be very big.	我相信合作带来的活力会非常大。
We're inside the Pike Place Market.	我们现在是在派克市场里面
Because I want to show points of interest.	因为我想展示一下几个兴趣点
Yeah, yeah, back to the corner, back to the corner.	对了，对了，回到角落，回到角落
We're doing two different things here.	我们正在做两件不一样的事情
They've done a fantastic job of pulling this together.	他们出色地完成了这个实验
All right now, I've overrun my time, so I've got to stop.	好，我的时间到了我必须要停下了
It suggests that we care about the fight, about the challenge.	它说明，我们在意竞争，在意挑战。
This was a student that was one of my students a few years earlier.	几年前，他是我的一个学生。
He was working in a big bank.	那时他在一家很大的银行工作。
And the guy was deeply depressed.	这消息让这家伙非常沮丧。
This was what we called the meaningful condition.	这就是我们所称作的意义条件。
People built one Bionicle after another.	人们一个接一个地制作生化战士。
And this other condition we called the Sisyphic condition.	这种情况被我们称为西西弗斯情境。
And you can think about this as the essence of doing futile work.	这个故事告诉人们无用工作的本质。
And if they said yes, they built it.	如果他们同意，就开始拼装。
People were building Bionicles for a few cents.	只是拼装生化战士赚几美分而已。
So there was not a real opportunity for big meaning.	因此这并没有什么重大的意义。
But even the small meaning made a difference.	但即使再小的意义也有所影响。
There was one other piece of data we looked at.	我们还将考虑了另一项因素。
In that condition the correlation was zero.	这种情境下的关联度为零。
We basically eliminated it.	我们几乎彻底抹杀了乐趣。
And they came up with all kinds of ideas.	他们给出了各种各样的想法。
So you take a piece, you just put it on the side.	只是拿过来然后放到一边去。
And this is basically the result we had before.	这和我们之前的结果是差不多的。
But what about the ignored condition?	但那个忽视情境又如何呢？
Now there's good news and bad news here.	现在有一个好消息和一个坏消息。
So the good news is that adding motivation doesn't seem to be so difficult.	所以好消息是提高动力并非难事。
And there's an old story about cake mixes.	有一个关于蛋糕粉的故事。
But it turns out they were very unpopular.	但结果它们并不非常受欢迎。
And they thought about all kinds of reasons for that.	他们思考了各种可能的原因，
No, no, no, it was somebody else's cake.	不，不，不，那人别人的蛋糕。
Now you had to break the eggs and add them.	现在你得自己把鸡蛋打碎了加进去。
You had to measure the milk and add it, mixing it.	你得算好牛奶的量加进去搅拌。
And we measured how much they were willing to pay for it.	然后我们看看他们愿意出多少。
So for some people we gave the same task.	所以我们给一些人同样的任务。
At the top of the sheet, we had little diagrams of how do you fold origami.	纸张顶部有关于折纸的小说明。
For some people we just eliminated that.	对一些人我们就把说明删掉。
So now this was tougher. What happened?	现在难度增加了。会发生什么呢？
Why? Because now the builders loved it even more.	为什么？因为折纸的人更喜欢它了。
They put all this extra effort into it.	因为他们投入了额外的精力。
Because in reality it was even uglier than the first version.	因为实际上折纸比第一次更丑了。
Your memories and associations and so on.	包括记忆以及相关联的东西等等。
How much would you pay for them now?	你现在愿意出多少钱买呢？
He gave an example of a pin factory.	他举了一个制针工厂的例子。
Is efficiency still more important than meaning?	效率是否仍然比意义重要？
And this picture is taken in Vietnam.	但这是一张在越南拍摄的照片
My family was moved from Phnom Penh to Pursat province.	我的家庭从金边搬到了普萨省
And at about this time actually my father got very sick.	在那个时候我的父亲得了重病
And we end up in Hong Ngu on the Vietnamese side.	我们来到了属于越南的闳嗯蛊
And this is a picture of Hong Ngu, Vietnam today.	这是一张今日越南闳嗯蛊的照片
But for us it meant freedom.	但是对我们来说它意味着自由
And freedom from persecution from the Khmer Rouge.	这是逃离了红色高棉统治的自由
Five years ago my mother and I went back to Chau Doc.	五年以前我母亲和我回到了朱笃
I'm happy, actually, today, to present her.	今天我非常高兴能够向大家介绍她
Yet, there is hope.	然而，他们仍然是有一丝希望的。
And very often violence is a way to cope with it.	通常人们用暴力来解决这些困扰。
And partly this is already happening.	事实上，事情已经在这么发生了。
Somebody has to be a witness to what has happened to you.	需要有人目睹你所经历的。
And somebody has to see you and listen to you.	需要有人关注你，倾听你。
At that time, it was the head of Caritas Germany.	当时，他是慈善德国的负责人。
And they are working with me up to today.	至今我们仍然在一起工作。
We wanted to know if what is being done is effective.	我们希望了解到所做的是否有效。
And I would like to share one short vignette.	我想与大家分享一个小故事。
What is life after fossil fuels going to be like?	没有矿物能源的生活会变得怎样？
How wide would the verge have to be for that to work out?	需要种植多宽的作物带才足够？
Let's say they do 30 miles per gallon.	以每加仑燃料可以跑30英里来算。
That's the European average for new cars.	这是现在欧洲新车的平均数据
What do we do with these numbers?	有了这些数字我们能做些什么呢？
So, that's the U.K., and the population density of the U.K.	这就是英国的情况英国的人口密度是
Bottom left, well, there's no one.	曾经有大量人口的左下角，
So here come some renewables.	以下是一些关于可再生能源的信息。
We just need to understand the numbers.	只是我们需要了解这些数字。
But the same goes for renewables as well.	可再生能源也同样有其他问题。
And that's a serious option.	这是一个值得考虑的选项。
It's a way for the world to handle this issue.	世界上很多问题都是这样解决的。
That's the average European car.	这是一种在欧洲常见的车。
We need a plan that adds up.	我们需要一个切实可行的计划。
There, he grew as a violinist and as a conductor.	在那儿他学习小提琴然后学指挥。
I'm talking here a little bit about display technologies.	刚才我会在这里谈一点显示技术。
Let me talk about how you might input information.	让我来告诉你如何来输入信息。
Now, what are some of the other advantages?	那还有什么其他的优势呢?
What we did stumble across was something ...	我们意外发现的实现的是,
Nicholas Negroponte: Now, this is his table of contents.	现在,在这个目录下,对吧?
Reading and writing is utterly useless.	阅读和写作是完全没用的。
You're going to like reading," and just read and read.	然后你去阅读，并且只是读啊读啊"
I will come to my last example and then quit.	我来讲一下最后的一个例子，
We call these behavioral markers.	我们称这些是行为的记录者。
Is it a hearing problem or is it a physicality problem?	是听觉上的问题还是行动不便？
Are you having more trouble dialing the phone than you used to?	你打电话时是否感到比以前费劲儿？
So, these are what I would call behavioral markers.	这就是我们所说的行为记录者。
How do we change behavior?	我们怎样才能改变行为呢？
This is some of the field work that we've done.	这是我们已经了解的一些领域。
We study people in Rochester, New York.	我们研究纽约州罗切斯特市的人们。
It's because of the second slogan that I want to talk about.	原因也正是我要讲到的第二个口号。
This is the first general hospital in Vienna.	第一个普通医院建立在维也纳。
The first word that comes up is "doctor."	出现的第一个词就是医生。
This is a very reactive, crisis-driven system.	这是个多反应，危机驱动的系统。
They're going to be pressing that button non-stop. Right?	他们会不停的按下按钮的。对吧?
Here's what some of this data might look like.	这里是一些数据可能出现的样子。
The color represents different rooms they are in the house.	颜色代表了房屋中不同的房间。
Now, this doesn't mean that much to you.	现在，这些对你并不重要。
It doesn't matter how we finance healthcare.	我们如何投资医保其实并不重要。
But there is no goal within this health reform.	但是，这项医保改革是没有目标的。
Today's cybercriminal, what do they look like?	如今的网络罪犯到底长什么样子？
In fact, they have product adverts.	事实上，他们甚至推出了产品广告。
Check out this one I found.	一起来看看我找到的这条广告。
You will have come in contact with some of them.	你们可能经历过其中的一些。
Now there are many ways you can get infected.	你会从很多渠道受到病毒攻击。
I want to show you a couple of my favorites.	我想展示我最喜欢的几个。
So let's have a look here on my victim computer.	让我们来看看这边受攻击的电脑。
Malware is very boring otherwise.	不然，恶意程序是很无聊的。
We can access your documents, your data.	我们可以访问你的文件，你的数据。
What I'm going to do is open up a website that I wrote.	我要打开一个我自己编的网站。
Many of you will have used something a bit like this before.	你们以前可能用过类似的东西。
It's code which will be interpreted on the webpage.	它是一段可通过网页读取的代码。
Notice that after a couple of seconds, I get redirected.	请注意，几秒钟后，页面跳转了，
Oh look, a child porn proxy server.	快看，一个儿童色情代理服务器。
So anyway, let me change pace a little bit.	不管怎样，让我变换一下节奏，
At the top, you'll notice a section of source code.	在文件上方能看到一段源代码
So here's a photo which resolves to St. Petersburg.	这里有一张拍摄于圣彼得堡的照片。
One of these was more stereotypical for me.	对于我来讲，其中一则更常见。
But this is where our investigation starts to slow down.	但随后，我们的调查开始进展缓慢。
The cybercriminals have locked down their profiles quite well.	网络罪犯们完全锁住了他们的资料。
This is how geeks party.	这就是网络奇客们的娱乐方式。
Two hundred and thirty-four of you, well, I know where you live.	我知道在场234个人的家庭住址。
When I was growing up in Montana, I had two dreams.	我在蒙太拿长大有两个梦想
And so that's what I've been striving for all of my life.	这是我整个生命中工作的动力
I was very fortunate early in my career.	我很幸运在我职业生涯的早期
In fact, I don't read much of anything.	事实上，我并不读什么文献
I basically practice for finding money on the street.	基本上我是靠在街上捡钱来训练的
People were starting to get an idea that dinosaurs were special.	那时大家开始觉得恐龙其实挺特别的
And they didn't just all chase Jeeps around.	它们并不是仅仅乱追吉普车的
And in his book, he talked about the social animals.	在他的书里，他讲到了这个社会性
They keep doing it; they just keep making these things.	他们不断克隆，不断造恐龙
Now it wasn't DNA; she didn't find DNA.	这些不是DNA，她没找到DNA
That was -- here we have 65-million-year-old heme.	这可是六千五百万年前的原血红素
Well we tried and tried and we couldn't really get anything else out of it.	我们试了很久没得到任何结果
So here was the character that linked birds and dinosaurs.	这是一个把鸟类和恐龙连起来的特征
And so here was the first soft tissue from a dinosaur.	也是第一次在恐龙化石里发现软组织
We thought maybe it was deteriorating very fast.	我们认为这些组织降解的很快
And we did. We got better material.	我们这样做了，也得到了更好的样本
We're not going to be able to make a dinosaur based on a dinosaur.	我们不能用恐龙来重造恐龙
We actually classify them as dinosaurs.	我们其实把鸟类归为和恐龙一类
Avian dinosaurs are our modern birds.	鸟类恐龙就是我们现代的鸟类
So we don't have to make a dinosaur because we already have them.	我们不需要造什么恐龙我们已经有啦
I know, you're as bad as the sixth-graders.	你们简直就像一帮六年级学生
So this is our problem, as you can imagine.	这正是我们的问题你可以想象
But the sixth-graders demand it.	但是六年级学生还是不认输
Or any of the other funny-looking little dogs.	或者任何其它有趣的好看的小狗
And now they're making Glow-rabbits and Glow-all-sorts-of-things.	现在他们在做荧光兔荧光很多东西
I guess we could make a glow chicken.	我就想我们可以做个荧光鸡
But I don't think that'll satisfy the sixth-graders either.	但是我不认为这能够说服六年级学生
Birds have basically rudimentary tails.	鸟类其实有没发育完的尾巴
So that's the other gene we're looking for.	这就是我们在找的另一个基因
But it's just the very basics.	但是这只是非常基本的改造
We've never had such gargantuan surpluses before.	我们之前从未有过如此庞大的盈余。
That's what's in fields around the world every single year.	这是全球每年的食物产量。
Two more we're going to throw away directly into bins.	还有两块我们会直接丢进垃圾桶里。
Supermarkets are an easy place to start.	超市是个容易开始着手的地方。
Potatoes that are cosmetically imperfect, all going for pigs.	那些外形不完美的土豆都归猪所有。
I was sitting in a roadside cafe.	当我坐在路边的咖啡馆里，
I thought, "My goodness, what taboo have I broken?	我想，"天啊，我打破了哪些禁忌？
This is an experiment I did on three lettuces.	这是一个我在三棵生菜上做的实验。
It's also a massive saving of resources.	同时也能减少很多资源利用。
Yes. I'm sure! Just change it!	是的，真的是这样！换一张！
Change it! Come on! What?	换一张！快点！怎么回事？
This, of course, is a map of the moon.	这个一看就知道是个月球地图
What are these people thinking? Frigoris?	这些人都在想什么啊！居然叫冷海?
What the Frigoris you doing? Names are important.	这个名字怎么了？名字是很重要的。
This is from their actual book.	这是从他们的书中节选的。
I'll go through a little of them. Bolotnitsa.	我来看几个吧。布隆滕尼撒
And then of course Arnon to Thoth.	接下来当然是希伯来到图特
I thought I'd translate for you.	我想我应该给你们翻译过来。
So, these are actual names of people that work there.	这些是那里工作人员的真实姓名
These are more people working for this group.	现在越来越多的人为这个团体工作
And, as you can see, they don't use their first names.	你也看到，他们不用自己的姓。
Must have been a very interesting day in the Shoemaker house.	这样的鞋匠家的一天，一定十分有趣
"No, I want to make maps of planets."	不，我想画各个行星的地图。
It's definitely one of the two. I'm not really clear which one.	肯定是其中一个。我不确定罢了。
But obviously the point is that numbers are maps.	但是很明显重点在于地图就是数据。
That is the premise of this particular presentation.	这就是这次特别发言的前提。
So, formulas relate number to form.	因此，用算式把数字组合起来。
The five sacred solids, as you can see there.	你看，那就是五个神圣立方体
The reality, now here is something important.	实际上，有一点值得注意，
What's important about this is these shapes are duals of each other.	重要的是，这些图形，都是相对的。
This would be a normal wave pattern.	这是个很标准的波动图示。
And judging from this, it looks a little like a cheeseburger.	这样看来，它有点像个芝士汉堡。
Everybody goes, I'm happy.	我很高兴，大家都是这么想的。
And that, to me, is really beautiful.	那对我来说，实在是太美了。
Except for that creepy guy in the background.	除了在背后偷偷摸摸的人以外。
But it did lead to Newton discovering gravity.	但是，这使牛顿发现了地心引力。
Now this is Isaac from a Vietnamese stamp.	现在这是越南邮票上的以撒。
Once again, Nicaragua let me down.	尼加拉瓜，又来了。饶了我吧！
Once again, these guys rock it out.	再说一遍，这些人太帅了！
Juan? No! Johannes, not Juan.	胡安？不对！是乔翰不是胡安。
It wasn't Carlos Chaplain. It's wrong.	这不是卡洛斯牧师。弄错了。
In Monaco, "No, what are you talking about?	在摩纳哥，"不，你在说什么呀？
Look, ours is more red, it's longer.	看，我们的旗更红，更长。
Golden section, I've been obsessed with this thing since before I was born.	黄金分割，打我一出生，就迷上它了
Alright where is this going? That's a good question.	好的，现在讲到哪了？问得好！
And I tried to build a particle accelerator.	我现在尝试做一个质子加速器。
Moleeds are what I believe the thing that will allow string theory to be proved.	我认为弦理论可以用来证实它。
That was the first chart I came up with.	这是我绘制的第一幅图表。
Once again, the Cartesian kind of cross-over.	又要再说一下笛卡尔坐标，
Look at that. You can't just make this stuff up, ladies and gentlemen.	大家看，这种事情我们做不来。
And you'll see over here, these are multiples of the number 27.	你看这，这些都是数字27的倍数。
The Blue System. The Violet. It's all there.	蓝色系统。紫色系统。都在这。
Look at that! I mean you cannot make that stuff up.	大家看，我意思是你们绝对办不到。
I don't want hidden, I want to see it.	我可不想藏着掖着，我想看到它。
You know, try making some charts like this at home.	在家想要画一些图表的话，
These are maps, by the way.	顺便说一下，这些是地图，
And look at this, built within it is the Golden Ratio.	看这个，这里面的是黄金分割
I find 18 examples of it in our solar system.	发现在太阳系有18种这样的例子。
Actually, it's deceptively large.	它看起来很大，其实不然。
So for a few hours, it all passed through China.	在数小时内，这些流量经由中国。
So I'm happy to get a chance to tell you about it.	我很高兴有机会告诉你们这一点。
Cartoons are basically short stories.	卡通实际上也就是短篇小说。
Not all of them have happy endings.	但不是所有故事都有快乐的结局。
So how did I get started cartooning?	我是怎么开始画漫画的呢?
Before that day, this is how I saw the ocean.	在这之前，这是我眼里的大海。
And this is how we've seen the ocean since the beginning of time.	这就是我们自古以来所看到的大海。
This part's not going to be on the test."	这部分不会出现在考试题上。"
And best of all, I saw the animals.	最棒的是，我看到了动物。
It would start a whole new space race.	这将启动一个全新的太空竞赛。
So, what I'd like to do now is try a little drawing.	因此，我现在想做的是试着画一下。
For instance, take these sea turtles.	举例来说，就拿这些海龟。
They can sense the magnetic fields of the earth.	他们可以感觉到地球的磁场。
He shoots out these sticky webs to entangle his enemy.	他射出这些黏的网来粘住他的敌人。
I'm going to draw this blowfish uninflated.	我先画这个还没充气的河豚。
And I kind of broke the mold with Sherman.	对于谢尔曼我打破了平常的模具。
I didn't want to go with this ruthless predator image.	我不想用这个无情的捕食者形象。
He's sort of a Homer Simpson with fins.	他像是带了鱼鳍的霍默辛普森。
So with characters, you can make stories.	所以用这些人物，可以编很多故事。
I've taken them camping in the kelp forests of California.	我带他们去了加州的海带森林露营。
He goes down and he meets this famous anglerfish.	他去碰到这只出名的华脐鱼。
We sort of worked things out.	我们大概解决了这个问题。
So what I did was I made an adventure strip.	所以我写了一个冒险故事。
I had to kill my main character, who is a shark.	我只有杀死我的主角，就是只鲨鱼。
He gets finned, and then he gets thrown overboard.	他的鳍被割掉，然后他被扔到海里。
This is what I love about comic strips, you know.	这就是我喜欢漫画的原因，你知道。
It becomes a near-death experience for Sherman.	它成为了谢尔曼的濒死体验。
And he clicks the "buy now" button.	他点击了"立即购买"的按钮。
I'd like to end with a little metaphor here.	我想在此用一个比喻来结尾。
And you're getting all kinds of cool stuff.	你得到了各种有趣的东西。
And that's what we're doing with the ocean.	而这正是我们对海洋做的。
That's why I like what I do.	这就是为什么我喜欢我的工作。
This is actually a story of my own backyard.	我要讲的其实就是我后院的故事。
I -- was -- your hand go up?	我--是--你举的手吗？
Now bring it out, bring it out. Anybody else?	拿出来，把它拿出来。还有谁带了？
I see, I see one way in the back.	我看到，我看到后面有一个。
Anyone on our panel, verify the answer.	在台上的各位，帮忙确认下答案。
A three-digit number, sir, yes?	给一个3位数，这位先生，好吗？
Yes? One more three-digit number please.	对吗？请再喊出一个3位数数字。
Eight-digit capacity -- don't you hate that?	最多只能8位--你们不讨厌吗？
If you think you know your birth day, raise your hand.	如果你觉得知道的话，举下手。
Fifth -- was that a Wednesday?	阿瑟:5号--那是不是星期3？
Yes, my -- I'll go way to the back right now, how about you?	没错，现在我从后面选，你怎样？
1959, OK -- and the month?	阿瑟:1959，好的--哪月？
I store them as words, and later on retrieve them as numbers.	我先存为单词，然后再转回成数字。
So, without any more stalling, here we go.	好吧，闲话少说，我们开始吧。
A third time, it's just being a technician.	第三次，就像成了一个技师。
It probably has lies in it as well.	甚至可能在这里我说的也不是真话。
No! Don't ask somebody who's writing code.	千万不要问那些写程序的人。
But that's not what I'm going to talk about.	但这不是是我将要谈论到的。
I would dearly love to talk about things that have one side.	我非常乐于谈谈这种单向性事物。
So it's highly -- that one's the cool one.	所以它很─这是比较酷的一个。
Not just showing up every now and then.	我不是隔三岔五地来教书。
We're going to be doing genuine physics."	我要教你们常识性的物理学。"
In addition to that, we've measured the speed of sound.	除此之外，我们还测量过音速。
And there's no time to do it.	但现在不容许我花那么多时间。
I've got a frequency counter right here.	我这里有一个频率测量仪。
Now, so I know the frequency.	现在我就知道它的频率了。
From here to here is the wavelength of sound.	从这里到这里就是声波的波长。
I've moved the microphone 20 centimeters.	我大概将麦克风移动了20厘米。
Pulls out a gun. Goes boom!	他抽出一把枪。"砰"地一声！
This cop comes after me with a rifle.	那个警察拿着一把来福枪来追我。
I keep climbing up, go back.	我继续往上爬，又倒退下来。
What's in the box?	猜猜看这个箱子里有什么？
Sound familiar?	你们也干过差不多的事儿吧？
So where does this lead?	那这一切的后果有哪些呢？
And it's going to give you a little more ease in your life.	而且，你的生活也会变得更加轻松
So how can you live little?	那我们怎样才能活得精简呢？
And of course, my own movie theater.	当然，它也能变成我的家庭影院
But consider the benefits of an edited life.	但精简生活的确能带来诸多好处。
And a sandbox for new ideas about evolution."	而且一大堆关于进化的想法。"
And they begin an incredible ballet.	然后他们开始了一个惊人的芭蕾。
They're in a state of play.	它们是在一个玩耍的状态里。
Now how did I get involved in this?	现在讲讲我是这么参与进来的？
But it has to be safe exploration.	但是这必须是安全的探索。
But curiosity, exploration, are part of the play scene.	但是好奇，探索，是玩耍的一部分。
The unit of intelligibility of most of our brains is the story.	对我们的大脑最清晰的单位是故事。
So what does play do for the brain?	所以玩耍对大脑有什么影响？
I walked into the Carnegie asking for a grant.	我进入卡内基要求补助金。
Nothing lights up the brain like play.	没有什么比玩耍更能启迪大脑。
Pretty smart -- they don't want to get killed by a cat.	十分聪明--它们可不想被猫抓到。
Now, this is a consequence of play deprivation.	现在，这是一个把玩耍剥夺的后果。
What's going to follow from that behavior is play.	接下来会发生的行为是玩耍。
JH: Stuart Brown, thank you very much.	JH:斯图尔特布朗，十分感谢你。
BR: But it's not all just edible pictures.	我们并不满足于做出可食用的照片
HC: You're about to eat a lemon, and now it tastes like lemonade.	你吃一个柠檬像在喝加糖的柠檬汁
So the key now is to make it behave like tuna.	而关键是让它吃起来也像金枪鱼肉
As long as it's good for you and good for the environment, it doesn't matter.	只要对人的健康和环境有好处就行了
And basically we took hay and crab apples and made barbecue sauce out of those two ingredients.	我们把稻草和山楂做成了烧烤酱
So, why don't we hear more about the world?	为什么我们听到的世界新闻很少？
The reality is that covering Britney is cheaper.	现实情况是报道布兰妮成本更低
Hello! My name is Golan Levin.	大家好，我是戈兰•莱文。
This a photograph of the desktop of a student of mine.	这是我一个学生的桌面照片，
And he said one of them is called Maluma.	然后他说其中的一个叫做吗魯吗，
So let's bring up a video of that.	我们一起来看一下这个视频。
Okay. Ah, there is lots of nice bright video.	好了。嗯，这有很多不错的视频。
And if I get really far away I'm blurry.	如果我很远呢,我就变得很模糊。
For you nerds, here's a little behind-the-scenes.	对科技狂热者，这有一些幕后揭秘。
Hollywood does this all the time, of course.	当然，好莱坞经常这么干。
And I'm really happy to be here. Thank you so much.	很高兴今天可以来到这里。谢谢。
This is a picture of a central African hunter.	这是中非捕猎者的一张照片
Their names are Patrice and Patee.	他们的名字是帕特里斯和帕蒂。
Then there is a rustle in the brush.	然后在草丛里有窸窣的响声。
OK, take a look at his shirt.	好，现在来看一下他的衬衫。
You know, take a look at his face.	你知道的，看一下他的脸。
But it can't be the fault of somebody like this.	但是这不是一些像这样人的错误。
Needless to say, I was drastically wrong.	笑声不用说，我大错特错了。
We have a whole range of challenges about this work.	对此项工作，我们要面临很多挑战。
And here's a shot of me, this is the before shot of me.	这是我的照片，这是照相之前的我。
And critically, what happens in central Africa doesn't stay in Central Africa.	发生在中非的事情不会永远在中非。
So it's not just hunters in Central Africa.	所以不仅仅是中非的捕猎人。
But really, this is just the beginning from our perspective.	但是这就是我们目标的开始。
So we're going to just type a couple of random words into Twitter.	让我们随便在上面敲几个字吧。
Worst talk ever!"	这是我听过最糟的演讲！"
I started to write about things I recognized.	我开始撰写我所熟知的事物。
My mother was an administrator.	我的母亲是一名大学管理员。
They were not starving.	他们没有受到饥饿的困扰。
A few years ago, I visited Mexico from the U.S.	几年前，我从美国探访墨西哥。
And then I was overwhelmed with shame.	但随后我的心中便充满了羞耻感。
Now, obviously I said this in a fit of mild irritation.	当然了，那是我一时的气话。
But I also had grandfathers who died in refugee camps.	但我也有在难民营中死去的祖父。
We talk things over with our friends, we scour the Internet, we search through books.	跟朋友倾谈上网搜索或者查阅书籍
And we've also got to be aware that experts, of course, also make mistakes.	我们也要认识到专家当然也会犯错。
We need to fundamentally redefine who it is that experts are.	从根本上重新定义专家的概念
He got dementia anyway.	无论怎样，他得了痴呆症。
So I'm preparing to get Alzheimer's disease.	所以我正准备患上老年痴呆症。
Would they give me charts and graphs that I could color?	他们会给我图案让我上色吗？
They get scared to walk around. They get scared to move.	他们开始害怕走路，害怕移动。
So I'm doing activities that will build my sense of balance.	所以我在做将建立我平衡感的活动。
I was never as kind as my dad, and I was never as loving.	我从来未跟我父亲一样和蔼慈祥。
But if it comes for me, I'm going to be ready.	但如果事与愿违，我将毫不畏惧
The original thought I had: this must be ethanol.	一开始我想一定应该用乙醇。
So that is not going to be the path to go.	所以这并不是一个可行的办法。
How do you do it from the power of the consumer up?	我们应该怎么从消费者动力处着手？
The network has two components in them.	这个网络由两个部分组成。
You drive. You take your depleted battery out.	你驾驶。你把已耗尽的电池取出。
The battery in this sense, is the crude oil.	电池，从这个角度看，就像原油。
You, today, buy gasoline miles.	你们，今天，买汽油英里。
And we created electric miles.	而我们却创造了电力英里。
We do not use any electrons that come from coal.	我们不会使用任何来自煤炭的电子。
Imagine only 40 miles per gallon cars would be on the road.	想像路上只有40英里一加仑的车。
Now this would have been a wonderful paper.	这本来是一篇极好的文章。
So we went out, and we looked at all the car companies.	因此我们调查了所有的汽车制造商。
We then decided to scale it up.	然后我们决定把这个案子扩大。
It's inversely proportional to taxes.	这个方案被设置成跟税收成反比。
Why is this a big issue?	为什么这是一个重要的问题？
It's called the trillion-dollar stimulus package.	一个所谓万亿美元的刺激计划。
That is another 25 million barrels a day.	那时还要增加两千五百万桶的原油。
That's all the U.S. usage today.	即美国现在的原油消耗量。
We take our money and we give it away.	我们把我们的资金都用在原油上面。
Now we actually looked at what the answer would be.	其实我们查看了这个问题的答案。
We have 10 million cars by region.	按区域计算，我们有一千万辆汽车。
That's an enormous amount of cars.	那可是一个不可小看的数字。
We don't have the industry set right.	我们也没有把各行业设置好。
All this stuff that happens around.	这些在我们身边发生的事情。
Some of it will go back to your own pocket.	一部分将会回到你自己的口袋里。
But our cars are actually going to be cheaper than gasoline cars.	我们的汽车将比汽油汽车便宜。
These are perfect matches to one another.	这些是完全符合双方的资源。
And people said, "Well we need to take time to do it.	而且人们说，"那可得时间啊。"
And the U.K. had 100 years of economic growth.	英国因此获得100年的经济发展。
Can you understand my quaint English accent?	大家都能听懂我古雅的英文口音吗？
People like me, on the other hand, rock the boat.	而像我这样的人呢，在制造麻烦。
I think they're right about one thing.	我觉得他们在一件事上是对的。
The God theory is not just a bad theory.	上帝的理论不仅是劣拙的理论。
Well, so much for quantity. How about quality?	好么，数量有了，质量呢？
Similar figures obtained for belief in personal immortality.	而相信有灵魂的比例则与此相近。
And I've already hinted what that something is.	而我已经提示过这事什么了。
So, how about "humanist"?	那么，人文主义者怎么呀呢？
It's completely compatible with the God of the physicists.	它完全可以和物理学家的神相兼容。
We need an anti-Templeton to step forward.	我们需要一个反例坦普尔顿站出来。
Let's all stop being so damned respectful.	请不要再那么充满该死的敬意了。
What characterizes them is decentralized authority.	这种模式的特征是权威的分散分布
But the truth of the matter is that this is going on.	但事实是打击行动正在进行。
So we decided to privatize many of our enterprises.	因而我们决定将许多企业私有化。
We -- as a result, we decided to liberalize many of our markets.	我们最终决定开放许多市场。
You couldn't get it. You had to bribe.	你很难安上电话，你还要为此行贿，
You had to do everything to get your phone.	你得不惜一切才能安上电话。
Barclays Bank of the U.K. is bringing in 500 million.	英国的巴克莱银行准备投资5亿。
We are doing the same with the insurance sector.	我们在保险业也实施了同样的策略
So in financial services, a great deal of opportunity.	因此，金融服务业也是充满商机的。
So it's clear that things are changing.	所以说，这些改变是很明显的。
And I want to just make one point about this investment.	对于这样的投资，我只想说明一点。
Nobody thinks there's opportunity.	没有人会想到这里会有机会。
So I invite you to explore the opportunities.	所以，我邀请大家来发掘这些机会。
Heart disease, cancer, a car accident?	心脏病或者癌症还是车祸呢？
Are we safer today?	难道我们今天更为安全了吗？
So, I'm here to trumpet vaccines for you.	所以我在这里向你们介绍一下疫苗。
So let's explore how vaccines work.	所以我们探索疫苗的起作用的方式。
So that's really how vaccines work.	这就是疫苗怎样起作用的。
So let's take a look at the flu virus.	我们一起来看一看流感病毒。
Now let's take a look at HIV.	现在我们来看看艾滋病病毒。
The vaccine effort though is really quite different.	尽管疫苗的作用实际上完全不同。
Notice these other, smaller protuberances.	注意看到这些其他的更小的突起物。
These are largely hidden from the immune system.	这些突起物都隐藏在疫苗系统里。
So, here's an alarming thought.	这可是一种令人害怕的想法。
And the process still takes more than half a year.	这一生产过程需要半年多的时间。
With a range of new technologies, we could.	我们运用新技术这是可以实现的。
Now think of where this leads us.	最近我们在想我们在研究的
So, the challenge is full speed ahead.	所以研制速度仍是我们的一大挑战。
What we have now is the end of the rise of the West. That's over.	而现在西方的崛起已经走到了尽头
The aggregate numbers are overwhelming.	城市里的人口总数是惊人的
They're people getting out of poverty as fast as they can.	他们正在以最快的速度摆脱贫困呢
Stars have shined down on earth's life for billions of years.	亿万年来，星光照耀着大地
They understand what accountability and democracy is.	他们懂得什么是责任和民主。
They're not going to wait for government to do things for them.	他们不会坐等政府为他们做事。
In contrast, of course, we have the Hippo Generation.	当然了，我们还有河马族。
The Hippo Generation are the ruling elites.	河马族就是当权的精英们。
Now, we're talking about a continent that is not poor.	我们所谈论的这个大陆并不贫瘠。
That's what makes a lot of Africans very angry.	就是这令很多非洲人非常愤怒。
Capital flight out of Africa, 80 billion a year.	非洲的资本外逃每年800亿美元。
We know that something has gone fundamentally wrong.	我们知道有些事情从根本上就错了。
My point is, they couldn't go beyond 15.	我想说的是，他们超不过15个。
An African economy can be broken up into three sectors.	一个非洲经济体可以分成三个地区。
The modern sector is the abode of the elites.	现代地区就是精英们的地盘。
This is part of Africa's indigenous political heritage.	一些非洲固有的政治传统。
They don't take any orders from their chiefs.	他们才不听酋长的命令——
They decide what to do.	他们自己决定自己干什么。
Timbuktu was one great big market town.	廷巴克图就是一个巨大的市镇。
The market is not alien to Africa.	市场对非洲来说并不陌生。
That's where you find the African people.	就是非洲人民所在的地方。
It means that he will be able to employ more Ghanaians.	意味着他可以雇佣更多的加纳人。
It also means that he will be able to generate wealth.	还意味着他将可以产生财富。
The modern healthcare sector has totally collapsed.	现代的健康卫生部门已经完全失败。
It meant a connection to the world.	它意味着与整个世界的联系，
It meant something that would connect us all together.	它意味着与将所有人联系起来。
Scott's results were full of them.	斯科特的搜索结果却全是这类新闻。
That's how different these results are becoming.	搜索结果就是会如此的不同。
So it's not just Google and Facebook either.	这不仅指谷歌，也不仅指脸谱。
So I do think this is a problem.	所以，我认为这确实是个问题。
We need it to connect us all together.	我们需要它使我们都联系在一起。
I gave my speech, then went back out to the airport to fly back home.	演讲完后就开到飞机场飞回老家了
We like to celebrate each other's successes in life.	我们喜欢在对方成功的时候互相祝福
But I wanted to elaborate on a couple of these.	但我想先说明下这些东西。
Not quite there yet.	不过技术上还不是非常的成熟。
Most of these expenditures are also profitable.	大多数这些支出也是有利可图的。
It is easier than you think. It really is.	这比你想象的要容易些，真的。
Invest sustainably. Majora mentioned this.	持续的投资，姆吉拉提及过这个。
A lot more to be said about that.	关于这个有太多需要说了。
Consider sending somebody to Nashville. Pick well.	考虑送一些人去纳什维尔看。
We have to buy a lot of those ads.	我们必须要买许多这样的广告。
Thank you very much, I appreciate it.	谢谢感谢，我非常的感激。
First, just a little bit about me.	首先，简单自我介绍一下。
It's like you dipped a marble in water.	就像你把一块大理石浸到水里。
Carbon dioxide level has gone up and up and up.	二氧化碳的含量越来越来越高。
So this really matters.	所以酸化问题是有真正影响的。
They can handle a hurricane that comes and goes.	他们可以应对一场飓风过境。
When the water goes down, they know what to do.	当水位下降，他们知道做什么。
They don't have another thing they can do.	他们没有其他可以做的事情。
You see a lot of oil on the ocean.	你看到很多石油漂在海上。
And they have a very strange way of cleaning up the beach.	他们清理海滩的方法很奇怪。
They have thousands and thousands of plastic bags.	他们有成千上万个塑料袋。
I don't know what they're going to do with all that stuff.	我不知道他们将怎么处理那些东西。
Meanwhile, there are still people trying to use the beach.	同时，还有人在海滩上娱乐。
These are the things that you can see.	这是各位可以看到的事物。
There's a lot you can't see, also, underwater.	有很多你没看到的在水下。
Well, some people say there are oil plumes.	有些人说看到了石油的羽状物，
I think it's being hidden on purpose.	我想真相被有意掩藏起来的。
Turtles eat it. It gets in the gills of fish.	海龟吃石油，石油进入鱼的鳃里。
That guide's entire calendar year is canceled bookings.	那个向导整年的预约被取消了。
That's the story of thousands of people.	那是关于几千个人的故事。
Their numbers have never recovered.	他们的数目至今没有恢复。
So the recovery rate of all this stuff is going to be variable.	生物数目的恢复率各有不同。
It's going to take longer for some things.	对有些来说需要更长的时间。
And some things, I think, will probably come back a little faster.	有些动物可能会恢复的更快一些。
These tuna swim the entire ocean.	金枪鱼在整个海洋中游泳。
But these are really high-performance athletic animals.	但这些是高质量的健壮的动物。
I don't know if it'll affect the adults.	我不知道它会不会影响到成年鱼。
And they populate much larger areas.	在更大的地区可以见到他们的踪迹。
Down on the lower left there are Ruddy Turnstones and Sanderlings.	在左下方的是赤翻石鹬和三趾鹬
And we just seem to be unable to figure out what to do.	而我们好像根本是束手无策。
They get near shore. Look at these two boats.	他们在近岸地区。看看这两条船。
The booms are only about 13 inches in diameter.	这些栅栏只有约13英寸的直径。
So it's just absolutely crazy.	所以它只是完全疯狂的举动。
All they're doing is stirring it.	他们做的恰恰是把它搅动起来。
It's really important to get those images and to show it.	将这些影像示众是很重要的。
I refuse to acknowledge this as anything like an accident.	我拒绝认为这是和事故类似的事件。
I think that this is the result of gross negligence.	我认为这是大众无知的结果。
Now there are things that we can do in the future.	我们在不久将来要做的事情。
We could have the kinds of equipment that we would really need.	我们可以拥有我们迫切需要的装备。
That's certainly one of the things we need to do.	那肯定是我们要做的事情之一。
That's what it would really mean to be conservative.	那才是保守派真正的含义。
It's a historic moment right now.	现在是一个有历史意义的时刻。
The first offshore drills were called harpoons.	第一个海外的钻头叫鱼叉。
Now are we stuck with this?	现在我们被困在了什么上？
Energy is always a moral issue.	能源一直是一个道德问题。
I decided I wanted to make a star.	我决定我要造个星星出来。
I don't see any nuclear power plants with fusion energy.	我没看到过有核发电站采用核聚变。
I built this in my garage.	我在我的车库建造出来的这个东西
That is me at the control panel of my fusion reactor.	我在这个发生器的控制板旁边
But it's not just skin-deep.	但这序列的作用可没这么肤浅
Are you more than your genes?	你们认为你们胜过自己的基因吗？
I think some people agree with me.	我看有一些人同意我的观点
And still, you may not see the branches.	然而，你可能还是看不到那些分枝
And we keep on doing that, slice after slice.	我们持续这么处理一张接着一张
So you see how to find a synapse.	你们了解了如何找到一个神经突触
And a neuron, well, that's smaller than brain.	而一个神经元，比大脑要小多了
It will take the work of generations to succeed.	这要求许多代人的共同努力才能完成
And synapses can grow larger, and they can grow smaller.	神经突触能够长大也能变小
The connectome is where nature meets nurture.	连接体是先天与后天的共同产物
Do not forget that groove in the Earth called the stream bed.	别忘了那地表的深漕我们叫它河床
And so we might even speak of the stream of consciousness.	这样我们甚至可以探讨意识的溪流
Neural activity is its water, and the connectome is its bed.	神经活动是水连接体是河床
Let us attempt to read out memories from connectomes.	我们尝试通过连接体来解读记忆
The branches of neurons are like the wires of the brain.	神经元的枝条就像是大脑的电线一样
Connectomes will mark a turning point in human history.	连接体会成为人类历史的转折点
This is the magnetically-levitating board that they mentioned in the commercial.	这就是广告中出现的磁悬浮滑板。
The gel that you're holding would be lining the bottom of the board.	你正握着的胶体会贴在滑板底部。
It's because of this that you need the magnetic braking system.	也正是如此，你需要磁性刹车系统。
I would create a ladder to use to get up on top of the tree.	我会做个梯子，这样能爬到树顶。
It's so safe you could drink this stuff.	你喝下这种液体也是安全的。
Now, think about your interactions with aluminum foil.	想象一下你用铝箔的时候。
Fresh Watch, from Inventables Dairy Farms.	新鲜看的见的来自于新奶场的牛奶。
Don't let milk spoil your morning.	不要让牛奶毁了你的早晨哦。
The best culinary experience of my life.	这是我一生中最美妙的饮食经验
Because what I saw, I'm convinced, is the future of cooking.	因为我相信我看到了饮食文化的未来
It was outlawed in Chicago for a while.	在芝加哥甚至有一阵子是违法的
I'm not saying that there's not a rationale for being opposed to foie gras.	我不是说反对鹅肝酱是不合理的
Its liver expands by eight times.	于是它们的肝脏胀大了八倍
It is fatty, it's sweet, it's silky, it's unctuous.	它油而不腻，带着丝般的甜味
What's natural about foie gras?	肥鹅肝有可能是天然的吗？
As he said to me, that really pissed the French off.	他告诉我，法国人非常生气
They implicated actually, the Spanish government, amazingly.	他们暗示这是西班牙政府做的
A huge scandal for a few weeks.	这个巨大的丑闻持续了几个礼拜
It's not foie gras because it's not gavage.	因为他没有使用强制喂食法
I'm just here to give the geese what they want.	我只是给这些鹅它们想要的
The electricity on this fiberglass fence is only on the outside.	玻璃纤维栅栏上是向外的一圈通电
Extra hard land, right?	艾斯马度华是"硬地"的意思
The Lupin bush, it's all around Extremadura.	艾斯马度华上到处都是这种羽扁豆
Not for the bush, but for the seeds.	不是它的叶子，而是它的种子
Is he like, you know -- because he seemed to have an answer for everything, and it was always nature.	他好像有一切解答而且永远保持天然
Because, really, they want you to look at themselves, right?	他们要的不是自我表现吗？
And I'm just saying, "No way."	我心想，"这怎么可能。"
It's like the DNA of a goose is to fly south in the winter, right?	野鹅的基因应该是冬天往南飞啊
Their DNA is to find the conditions that are conducive to life.	它们的基因是为自己找到一个
I finally got to taste it before I left.	在我离开前我终于品尝到了
And the problem with saying that, of course, is that you know, at this point it risks hyperbole really easily.	这么说的问题在听上去可能有些夸张
But it truly was the best foie gras of my life.	但那的确是我吃过最好吃的鹅肝
But this was transformative. Really transformative.	那改变了我，真的改变了我
And you could taste herbs, you could taste spices.	你可以吃到香草，你可以吃到香料
And I'm not like some super taster, you know?	我不是那种舌头很灵的人，你知道
Chefs take foie gras and they make it their own.	厨师们用肥鹅肝做自己想要的
With Eduardo it's about the expression of nature.	都是Eduardo力求天然的成果
He said, "I think it's an insult to history."	他说"我认为那是污辱历史。"
The Pharaoh got wind of this and wanted to taste it.	埃及法老听说了，想要尝尝看
And if you think about it, it's the history of industrial agriculture.	如果我们思考农业产业化的历史
Most of what we eat today.	今天我们所吃的食物大部分都是
Whatever it is, it's a mindset that is reminiscent of General Motors.	无论如何，这就像通用汽车
And stop degrading resources under the guise of cheap food.	停止利用便宜食物之名来浪费资源
Could we have fuel without fear?	我们能不能安心地使用燃料?
Three-fourths of our electricity powers buildings.	四分之三的电力被用于建筑物供电
And the rest of both runs factories.	两者的剩下部分被用于工厂运作
So it needs refurbishment.	因此能源系统需要改头换面
So let's start by making autos oil free.	让我们从汽车免费用油开始着手
America could lead this next automotive revolution.	美国能够引领下一轮汽车业革命
But the electrified vehicles don't need to burden the electricity grid.	但是电动汽车并不会对电网造成负担
Integrative design can also increase energy savings in industry.	整合设计也可以帮助工业节约能源
Half of that runs pumps and fans.	其中的一半被用在泵和风扇上
China leads their explosive growth and their plummeting cost.	中国在这方面发展迅猛，成本也暴跌
And I heretically suggested it could go down several-fold.	当时我却偏要提议，它可以降低七倍
Big discoveries are protected by public incredulity."	伟大的发现自会受到公众的质疑"
Of course there's still a lot of old thinking out there too.	当然外界还有许多传统观念
Are governments delivering services to the citizens?	当地政府是否在为其公民提供服务？
I mean, I feel useless.	就是说，我觉得很没有用。
What civilization creates this society?	怎样的文明创造了这个社会？
What animal species creates this civilization?	哪种动物创造了这个文明？
Me, I have strictly no power to change anything.	我根本毫无权力改变任何东西。
There is things to see, there is the big challenge.	有些事要看看，有一个大挑战。
At the end, finally, that succeeds, and life appears.	最后，终于成功了，生命出现了。
Can you imagine? It's very symbolic.	你能想象吗？那很有象征意义。
There is so many things to do; it's so fresh.	有许多事要做，都很新鲜。
And you will fall, and you will die. Dangerous.	你就会跌倒，会死掉。很危险。
I live in society; I live in community.	我住在社会，我住在小区。
The more you will rise, the more you will be important for the civilization.	你提得愈高，你对文明就愈重要。
From this to here, that, it's genius.	从这里到这里，这是天才。
It's better, but nobody.	那样比较好，但是没有人。
Out, more of the horizontal. You are an intelligence.	向外，更向地平线。你是个智者。
It's very, very, very important.	这非常、非常、非常重要。
It's made of light and shadow.	它是由光亮和阴影构成的。
And it's very important to know where we are.	重要的是要知道我们是在哪里。
That's why today I'm so ashamed to make this job.	因为这样，如今我羞于做这件事。
That's why I am here, to try to do it the best possible.	因此我来这里，尽我所能做它。
No, you must really understand that.	不，你必须真正明白那个。
And I was talking to this group of students, and take a look at them.	当时我对这群学生演讲，并观察他们
You'll noticed that almost all of them are minority.	你们注意到他们几乎都是少数族群
You'll notice that the building is rather austere.	你们注意到这栋建筑十分简陋
It's an old New York school building, nothing fancy.	这是一栋老旧的纽约校舍，十分简朴
They still have old blackboards and whatnot.	他们仍使用旧式黑板等设备
And then they said, "But he looks good."	接着写道，"但他看起来不错"
So people think I'm being unkind to this kid.	所以人们认为我刁难这个孩子
You know that they'll always start yakking.	你们知道，他们总是聒噪不休
It gives them structure.	这让他们明白何谓组织结构
Don't start telling me why you didn't do something.	"别告诉我为何你们没做到某件事"
We're always talking about, "Let's fix the schools.	大家总是说，"让我们改善学校"
Let's get it all online."	"让我们将一切放上网络"
That isn't the whole answer. It's part of the answer.	那并非全部答案，仅是部分答案
That's when love begins. That's when structure begins.	那就是爱的开始，那就是结构的开始
This is the way children are raised properly.	这就是正确教养孩子的方式
But it begins with the gift of a good start.	但这始于好的开始这份礼物
We worked like dogs down in the garment industry every single day.	"我们每天在成衣厂做牛做马"
But what they did was keep us in play.	但她们所做的就是让我们守法守分
They kept us in play.	她们不断地让我们守法守分
"Don't give us any of that self-actualization stuff.	"别跟我们谈什么自我实现的理想"
You get a job and get out of the house.	"只要找份工作，搬出家门"
We don't have time to waste for that.	"我们没时间浪费在那种事上"
All of us have to have a commitment to do that.	我们每个人都该致力于这方面的贡献
That's how the system's supposed to work.	这就是这个系统的运作方式
Gotta have a dirty water dog.	非得吃个脏兮兮的热狗不可
I even did it when I was Secretary of State.	即使担任国务卿时也不例外
But now I'm alone. I'm alone.	但现在我独自一人，独自一人
I've got no bodyguards, I've got no police cars. I've got nothing.	没有保镳，没有警车，什么也没有
You're, well, you're General Powell."	"你是…嗯…你是鲍威尔将军"
But now I'm an American. Sir, thank you."	"但我现在是美国人，长官，谢谢"
The album sold more copies than previous releases of the band.	而这张唱片比之前的几张卖的都要好
Companies can even give control to hackers.	公司甚至还可以给黑客一些权利
The ultimate empowerment of customers is to ask them not to buy.	给消费者的终极权利是叫他们不要买
That should make them more humble, more vulnerable and more human.	这使他们更卑微、更脆弱也更具人性
No one was a hero. No one was a hero.	没人是英雄。没人是英雄。
Those were the achievements of our great regime.	这些就是我们伟大政权的成就。
Everyone did not want really to get in trouble.	每个人都不想真的惹上麻烦。
A dictator cannot live without the force.	独裁者没有暴力就无法生存。
They want to make people live in fear.	他们希望让人们生活在恐惧之中。
It's helping all of us to connect.	这帮助我们所有人联系在一起。
There are a lot of people who are frustrated."	还有许多感到沮丧的人们。"
They probably have the best life in the world.	他们也许过着世界上最好的生活。
They are living in happiness. They are living in their villas.	他们生活幸福。住在他们的别墅中。
They are happy. They don't have problems.	他们很快乐；没有什么烦恼。
But they are still feeling the pain of the Egyptian.	但他们仍感觉到了埃及之痛。
I still remember every single detail of that photo.	我仍记得那张照片中的每个细节。
He was tortured, brutally tortured to death.	他遭受了折磨，被残忍地折磨致死。
But then what was the answer of the regime?	然而当局的说法是什么呢？
He's someone who escaped from all these bad things."	他是个做尽坏事的逃犯。"
His photo was remembered by all of us.	我们大家都记住了他的照片。
"What are we going to do?" "I don't know."	"我们要做什么？""我不知道。"
Everyone was an owner in this page.	每个人都是这一网页的拥有者。
They were actually attacking them.	实际上，当局攻击了他们。
And things had developed until the Tunisian revolution.	情况进一步发展，直到突尼斯革命。
The leader was everyone on that page.	那网页上的每个人都是领袖。
Yes we can. We can do it.	是的，我们能。我们能做到。
This is not the end, this is the beginning of the end."	没有结束，这是结束的开始。"
And I did not really hear anything. I did not know anything.	我什么都没听到。我什么都不知道。
The next day I was in Tahrir.	获释后的第二天我去了解放广场。
I said that, "We are going to win.	我说过，"我们将取得胜利。
For me that's winning, regardless of all the details.	对我而言，这就是胜利，不论其他。
I want you to take a look at this baby.	我想让大家看看这个婴儿。
After puberty, we fall off the map.	青春期后，如图我们语言能力衰退。
A six-monther adores the task.	六个月大的婴儿喜欢这个测试。
But we as adults are no longer absorbing those statistics.	但我们成年人不再吸收这些统计。
It's raising lots of questions about bilingual people.	这也引出很多关于双语者的问题。
Here's what it looked like in the laboratory.	在实验室它看起来就像这样。
So a group of babies came in and listened to English.	所以这组婴儿来这儿只听英语。
What did we do to their brains?	我们又对他们的脑袋瓜做什么了？
The social brain is controlling when the babies are taking their statistics.	当婴儿在统计时社会大脑在控制着。
It looks like a hair dryer from Mars.	它看上去就像来自火星的吹风机。
And she's listening to various languages in the earphones that are in her ears.	她正通过耳机聆听多种语言
You can see, she can move around.	大家可以看到，她可以移动。
And yet, they do it in a very different way.	然而，通过的是两种不同的方式。
Let me show you what this looks like.	让我来展示一下这是什么样的。
But I have to tell you a funny story.	但我得告诉你们一个好玩的故事。
Has anyone of you heard of ferrofluid?	有没有人听说过铁磁流体？
Should I skip that part?	那我是不是该跳过这一部分？
Let's just slightly move it to the right and maybe focus it a little bit more. Excellent.	向右移一点调整一下焦点，很好。
Those are just standard watercolors that you would paint with.	这些就是普通水彩你用来画画的那种
That's because the ferrofluid itself is hydrophobic.	这是由于铁磁流体具有疏水性。
And at the same time, alcohol is highly flammable.	同时，酒精又是极易燃的。
It goes really fast, and it's not that impressive.	它发生得非常快，也不怎么厉害。
So that's how those images were made.	那些照片就是这样被做出来的。
Is it just some strange materials?	或者只是一些奇怪的材料？
Without them, humanity cannot survive."	没有它们人性无法留存。"
It is the big cats, and it's the plankton.	不论是大型猫科动物还是浮游生物
Again, the eyes and hands of Avalokiteshvara.	再一次观世音的眼睛和慈悲之手显现
That component is that we cannot be attached to outcome.	这就是我们不应该耽于结果
That compassion is actually an inherent human quality.	这种慈悲是人类内在的特质
Another thing about compassion is that it really enhances what's called neural integration.	另一个特性是它可以增强神经整合
It hooks up all parts of the brain.	它使脑部的每个部分都联接起来
Hey, we live in a very noxious world.	嗨我们生活在充满毒素的世界
And the archetype of this in Buddhism is Avalokiteshvara, Kuan-Yin.	这在佛教中的原型就是千手观音
And they have actualized compassion through direct action.	她们通过直接行动具化了慈悲
He looks, it's a dog, he drops to his knees.	他定睛一看，是条狗，他跪了下来
He puts out his tongue in order to remove the maggots, so as not to harm them.	他用舌头弄出蛆以免伤害到它们
And at that moment, the dog transformed into the Buddha of love and kindness.	那一刻狗幻化成爱与善的佛
The women in this room are lotuses in a sea of fire.	这个屋子里的女性是浴火而生的莲花
And then there was me, the Iranian-American of the group.	还有我，这团队里的伊朗裔美国人。
Those two countries aren't getting along these days.	这两个国家最近关系不好。
So I remember getting my American passport.	所以我记得我拿到美国护照时，
"I'm trying to go places."	"我还想去很多地方呢。"
And he started asking me questions.	然后他开始盘查我一些问题。
Like I think you're missing the point here.	我认为大家没完全理解我这的用意。
All it takes in one person to mess it up.	只是一粒老鼠屎坏了一锅粥。
"And furthermore, it is the thought that counts."	"而且，意思意思就行了。"
Don't be Hassan. Don't be Hussein."	不是哈桑，不是侯赛因。"
"Damn it! Why Jack? Why?"	"可恶，为什么杰克？为什么？"
And it's great, there's good people everywhere.	到处我都见到好人，这真是太棒了。
For example, Dubai -- cool place.	例如迪拜，非常酷的地方。
I was walking. I heard "Beep, beep."	我正走着，听到"嘟嘟声"。
I'm like, "What are you doing here?"	我想"的士怎么跑到这来了？"
"You want some frozen yogurt?	"你想要一些冷冻酸奶吗？
"On the third floor, sir. On the third floor."	"在第三层楼，先生。在第三层。"
And I've been guilty of stereotyping as well.	我也因自己的成见而自责。
So I went down to the lobby, and I saw this Indian guy.	当我走出大厅，看到一个印度人。
He goes, "I thought you were my driver."	他说，"我认为你是我的司机。""
A magician promises to deceive you -- and he does.	魔术师承诺要欺骗你--他做到了
Compulsive gamblers are experts at self-deception.	沉迷于赌博的人很善于自我欺骗
Bad experiences are quickly forgotten.	对于不好的经历忘记的更快
We seem to be spending more and more money.	似乎我们花的钱也越来越多。
They are cells in dishes and animal testing.	它们是培养皿和动物实验。
So, cells are happily functioning in our bodies.	一般，细胞在我们体内快乐的工作。
Guess what. They don't.	猜怎么着。它们不工作了。
So we need better tools.	所以我们需要更好的工具。
Our bodies are dynamic environments.	人类身体有着动态的环境。
They're in dynamic environments in our body.	细胞生活在身体的动态环境中。
They've tried many different approaches.	他们尝试了许多不同的方法。
So how does it work? Let me show you.	它是如何工作的？让我展示给你看。
And that can lead to diseases such as bronchitis.	就会导致支气管炎等疾病。
We didn't stop with the lung on a chip.	我们并没有止步于芯片上的肺细胞。
You can see one right here.	大家可以看到我这里就有一个。
This is a disease that affects a large number of individuals.	这是一种疾病，影响许多病患。
Tends to be middle aged, tends to be female.	往往是中年人，往往是女性。
And this is key to the potential of that technology.	这是该技术至关重要的潜能。
Now let me show you our instrument.	现在让我给大家看看我们的仪器。
It creates an easy user interface.	它将创建一个简单的用户界面。
Look at her posture; it's remarkable.	看她的姿态，真是引人注目。
But I'm still suggesting you and I should meet.	但我还是希望我们应该见面。
Hell, ponytail alone.	见鬼，还是扎上马尾辫吧。
I don't know what else to tell you.	我不知道还有什么可以告诉你的。
You can put it in your phone."	你也可以把它放在你的手机里。"
15 years ago I received a phone call from a friend.	15年前，我接到一个朋友的电话。
He asked me if I wanted to interview the Red Brigades.	他问我是否想去采访红色旅的成员。
In particular, one person had put it forward.	特别是由一位女成员提出的。
All the others do, day in and day out, is search for money.	其他成员都在日夜搜刮金钱。
It was a psychiatrist. He loved sailing.	他是一位精神病医生。他热爱开船。
This guy thought in the same way I did.	这人的想法和居然我一摸一样。
So, I decided that I wanted to investigate the economics of terrorism.	因此我决定要探索恐怖主义经济。
In fact, I think many people thought that I was a bit crazy.	事实上，很多人都认为我疯了。
The first one is the state sponsor of terrorism.	第一阶段，国家资助的恐怖主义。
The second one is the privatization of terrorism.	第二阶段，恐怖主义的私有化。
And the third, of course, is the globalization of terrorism.	第三阶段，恐怖主义的全球化。
A mix of legal and illegal activities is used.	他们则是八仙过海各显神通。
Now, again we see a mix of legal and illegal activities.	我们再次见识到了他们的能耐。
But above all, they started to do serious business with the world of crime.	从此，黑色经济开始成形。
This is an organization that can raise money across border.	这个组织可以跨大陆的赚钱。
But also that is able to carry out attacks in more than one country.	以至于他们能跨国进行恐怖袭击。
And it actually happened again, with the fall of the Berlin wall.	当柏林墙倒塌时，它再一次显现了。
So, you see, what is the relationship?	现在，你们认识到这之间的联系吗？
It can borrow against the total amount of dollars in circulation in the world.	他们可以凭在世界流通美元借钱。
Part of the War on Terror was the introduction of the Patriot Act.	这场战争是爱国者法案颁布的序幕。
And it is, in fact, an anti-money-laundering legislation.	这同时也是一个反洗钱的法案。
The same thing happened, of course, in the world of crime and terror.	对于地下世界，也发生了同样事情。
It was introduced only in the United States.	这项法案只适用于美国国内。
So, why did I tell you this story?	我为什么要告诉你们这个故事？
And, above all, it's not going to be boring.	最重要的一点就是，这很有趣。
The story that I told myself was that adventurers looked like this.	我所认为的冒险就是这些人所做的
I didn't look the part.	看上去，我不适合这样的冒险
I wanted to live a life that I could be proud of.	我希望拥有一个我为之自豪的一生
And pretty early on, those storms started making their presence known.	很快这些风暴就显示出了它们的威力
Oars are not supposed to look like this.	看上去，桨不应该是这样的
I don't think I've ever felt so happy in my entire life.	在我整个人生里，我从没这么高兴过
And generally arrive about 30 pounds lighter at the other end.	到达终点的时候，我大概瘦了30磅
With my eyes shut. Ha-ha.	当然是把眼睛闭上了啊，哈哈
And finally: Am I crazy?	最后一个问题:我是不是疯了?
Well, naturally, you decide to row across the Pacific.	很自然，你会决定横渡太平洋
Unfortunately, ocean rowboats very rarely go in a straight line.	不幸的是,划船渡洋很少能走直线
The first attempt didn't go so well.	我的第一次尝进行得并不顺利
A bit like being in a washing machine.	感觉有点像掉进了洗衣机里
Fortunately, help was at hand.	万幸的是，我立刻得到了帮助
They were running out of food; I was running out of water.	他们没有了食物，我没有了水
And it took about a week for us to actually gradually converge.	大约一周以后我们才真正会了面
And this is really bad news because plastic is not an inert substance.	糟糕的是，塑料是惰性物质
I eventually made it to Hawaii still alive.	最后，我还是活着到了夏威夷
How, literally, ungrounded that would make me feel.	会令我会感到多么多么的不真实
The first one is about the stories that we tell ourselves.	第一个关键是我们对自己的认识
And then that story changed.	但是后来,这些看法都改变了
I found out that people had rowed across oceans.	我发现像我这样的人也有横渡大洋的
The second point is about the accumulation of tiny actions.	第二个关键是这些细微行动的积累
And, by the same token, we can turn that tide.	寄于同样的原因，我们可以改变形势
And we've gotten sick as long as we've been people.	只要我们还是人类，我们就会得病。
And so we've always looked for reasons to explain why we get sick.	所以，我们常会寻找得病的原因。
He thought yellow fever was not transmitted by dirty clothing.	他认为黄热病不是由脏衣物
We're able to gather information about our environment.	我们可以收集周围环境的信息
We just have better statistics.	我们只是有了更好的统计而已
Right? It can't be networked. It can't be integrated.	它们不会被链接或整合起来
It cannot be used by people who aren't credentialed.	他们需要获得授权才能被使用
And that wasn't the goal. It wasn't the point. Right?	这并不是他们的初衷，对吧？
It's a side effect, if you will, of a power we created to take us for good.	这是一个副作用一个好事的副作用
My mother-in-law is a cancer survivor. Cancer sucks.	我的岳母也是。得癌症很郁闷的。
I don't have any financial interest in it.	当然我对这家公司没有任何利益联系
So people like to share, if you give them the opportunity and the choice.	所以只要有机会，人们是喜欢分享的
You'll be shocked and offended and, I would bet, outraged, at how hard it is to get it.	困难程度会让你震惊甚至愤怒
And being naked and alone can be terrifying.	一个人裸体是很可怕的事情
And you're on the outside, you're at home.	可你被排除在外，你待在家里--
And you're on the inside, and it's everything you hoped it would be.	然后你终于入流了，一切都如你所愿
This has been a really galvanizing issue for a long time.	这事在很长时间里令人激动不已
And yet, now, it's talked about all the time.	可是现在大家总是大谈特谈
There's the World Trade Center site, on the front cover.	这是世贸中心地段，印在封面上
But that's what we're going to do.	可是我们就得建这玩意儿了
And that kind of fight has gone on back and forth in architecture all the time.	建筑界就始终为这个闹腾着
I mean, it goes on in our private lives, too, every single day.	这也进入了我们日常的个人生活
We all want to go out and buy an Audi TT, don't we?	我们都想去买辆奥迪TT，不是吗？
And these are two of the top architectural practices in the United States today.	而他们堪称今天美国建筑业的领袖
Does everybody know what a camera obscura is?	大家都知道暗箱是什么吧？
It doesn't care. It's manufacturing the parts.	它才不管呢。它只负责生产部件
Here's the little drawing that tells them how that works -- and that's what will happen in the end.	这里有一个示意图这个是完成品
You're underneath it, looking up into the lens of the camera obscura.	你站在下面，抬头看暗箱的镜头
And those are the pieces of wood. Those are the instructions.	现在我们有一块块木头和一些指令
These are the pieces, and here's a little of that blown up.	这里都是木料，有一点是爆炸形的
Looks like a beautiful piano sounding board on the inside.	从里面看上去象个漂亮的钢琴共鸣板
It has its own built-in swimming pool, very, very cool.	有一个内嵌式的游泳池，非常非常酷
Here we're going to walk across the bridge at night.	想象我们在夜间走过这座桥
Okay, just to make sure that you've enjoyed it.	好吧，只是想确定一下你们喜欢
And I think I'll probably leave it at that. Thank you very much.	我想我就在这里结束吧。谢谢大家！
So this is another one dedicated to that guy ...	所以这又是一首关于那个人的歌
who I've got over.	不过那已经是过去的事了。
I always thought that was an unfair question.	我一直觉得这个问题问得很不公平。
When I was eight, I wanted to be a marine biologist.	八岁的时候，我想当海洋生物学家。
So I said, "Professional wrestler."	于是我说，"职业摔跤运动员。"
See, my dreams got called names too.	你瞧，我的梦想们也被人起了外号。
I gave myself a hall pass to get through each broken promise.	每次爽约我都能立刻原谅自己。
I thought they were both pork chops.	我以为它们都是猪排的意思。
We found ourselves outnumbered day after wretched day.	我们寡不敌众，每天都被人欺负。
The classics were, "Hey stupid," "Hey spaz."	比如，"笨蛋"，"怪胎"。
You built a cast around your broken heart and signed it yourself.	你在自己破碎的心灵周围筑起城墙
You have to believe that they were wrong.	你不得不相信他们是错的。
We only got out to walk and get gas.	我们只需要一些汽油，就能开起来。
As you can probably well imagine, I was a strange child.	你们大概能想到我原先是个怪小孩儿
I'm still trying to find every noise that I can possibly make.	我仍希望找到自己能够制造出的声音
And there's things that no one's voice can do.	有些声响没有人的嗓音能够完成
For example, no one can do two notes at the same time.	比如说，人声不能同时发出两个音符
And I'm going to show you what it can do.	接下来我就给你们演示一下
So I'm going to start another beat for you, like this.	我以另一个节拍开始，像这样
And now I have that, I have that recorded.	现在有了，我已经把它录进去了
I didn't just trigger something which sounds like that.	我并没有触发一个那样的装置
There's no samples. There's no synthesizers.	根本没有样本没有音响合成器
Not just any day, but it is a day.	不是随便哪一天但反正就是一天
It will get here, there's no question.	明天一定会到来这是毫无疑问的
And the important thing to remember is that this simulation is a good one.	重要的是要记住这次模拟是成功的
You can move objects from one area to another.	你可以把东西从这儿移到那儿
Again, imagine those all back and forth there.	同样地，想象一下这片区域
The other method of extraction is what's called the in-situ.	另一种开采方式叫做"就地钻探"
The tailings ponds are the largest toxic impoundments on the planet.	那些残渣池是世上最大的毒性蓄水池
That's two-thirds the size of the entire island of Manhattan.	相当于三分之二个曼哈顿岛
And the Athabasca River drains downstream to a range of Aboriginal communities.	阿萨帕斯卡尔河下游即原住民聚集地
And not that many years ago, I was lent a boat by a First Nations man.	几年前，我向原住民借了一条船
And this is absolutely key.	无疑是十分重要的生态环境
This is the infrastructure as we see it about now.	以上是我们目前所知的基础设施
Here you see the route down the Mackenzie Valley.	图中有条直抵马更些谷的路线
And here we have the plan out to 2030.	这是预定于2030年完成的计划
And we need to all gather together and say no to the tar sands.	我们必须团结一致向油砂说不
I, for one, was steeped in these.	举个例子，我就很迷恋这些漫画。
He too is reinventing the miniature tradition.	他也革新了微型绘画传统。
OK. We can violate your expectations about shape.	好的。我可以在形状上违背你的期望
And figure goes to ground.	另一张是"肖像"隐藏到底色里
Well, I hope to change that in less than three minutes.	我希望能在三分钟内为此做些改变。
It was front page of the New York Times a couple months ago.	几个月前出现在纽约时报头版
I can sink my teeth into this."	我可以拿出来大讲特讲。"
I like special missions and secret objectives.	我喜欢特殊的使命和神秘的目标。
Now, you have a secret mission too.	现在，你也有一个秘密的使命。
Now, I want to take this problem seriously.	现在，我想要认真的对待这个问题。
So I have been thinking about this question a lot lately.	因此我最近一直在想这个问题。
I wish I'd had the courage to express my true self.	我希望我曾鼓励过我做真正的自己。
Now let me tell you that story.	现在让我告诉你们那个故事吧。
It said, you're never going to get better.	说，你将再也好不起来了。
It said, the pain will never end.	还说，疼痛恶魔会一直纠缠你不放。
This was an easier way to ask for help.	这是一个最简单的方法去要求帮忙。
Now what happened next with the game surprised me.	游戏之后的收获使我很惊讶。
Now at the time, I'm thinking to myself, what is going on here?	那时，我思索着，到底发生了什么？
And that's what was happening to us.	这正是我们亲生经历着的。
I have a new sense of meaning and purpose in my life.	我对生活的意义有了新的定义。
Now, does this sound familiar?	现在听起来这些有点熟悉么吗？
Now this is interesting, right?	现在看来很有趣，不是吗？
But how does it work?	但是这到底是什么样的一个过程？
How do you get from trauma to growth?	你怎么样能从创伤中再生？
I'd rather we all start building them up together right now.	我更想和你们一起开始去加强它们
So here's what we're going to do.	所以这是我们接下来要做的
Everybody ready for your next quest?	每个人都准备好下一个任务了吗？
So good job. Quest number three.	干得不错！我们来开始第三个任务
If you're inside, find a window and look out of it.	如果你在房子里，选一个窗户向外看
If you're outside, find a window and look in.	如果你在户外，选一个窗户望里看
Okay, one more. Baby elephant.	很好，再加一个，大象宝宝
These seven and a half bonus minutes are kind of like genie's wishes.	这一分半钟有的点像神给你的许愿
And the good news is, you can keep going like that.	好消息就是，如果你坚持这样做
So I said yes to this proposition.	所以我就答应了这个提议。
And I went home, and I told my sister Christine.	回家之后，我告诉了姐姐克里斯汀，
But she went into crochet overdrive.	但她还是加紧投入了编织中。
And the people in Chicago made a reef of their own.	芝加哥人就做出了自己的珊瑚礁，
Why on earth are you crocheting a reef?	你到底为什么要编织一个珊瑚礁？
Why not chisel a coral reef out of marble?	为什么不用大理石来雕刻珊瑚礁？
The first one she did was knitting.	她的第一个作品是用针织法做的。
That's our definition of a parallel line.	这就是我们对平行线的定义。
It's a definition really of Euclidean space.	它是欧几里得空间真正的定义。
I have a straight line on my spherical surface.	在这个球面上有一条直线，
Now mathematicians have answered that question.	现在数学家们已经回答了这个问题。
Now mathematicians thought that was the only alternative.	数学家们认为这只是其中一个答案。
Two answers? There may possibly be a third alternative.	两个答案？还可能有第三个答案。
Infinity. You all got it right. Exactly.	无穷多。你们都对了，没错。
But you don't know what a sphere looks like.	但你不知道球体看起来是什么样的。
And someone that comes along and says, "Look here's a ball."	然后有人过来说，"看那有个球。"
I can touch it. I can play with it."	我们触摸它。它还能用来玩。"
Here is this diagram in crochetness.	这里是钩针编织的一个图示。
And that's true. But it also goes deeper than that.	这是真的。但这背后还有更多东西。
So let me give you a few striking examples of this.	就让我向诸位展示几个惊人的例子。
You can't even recognize yourself in the mirror.	你就连镜子里的自己都认不出来了。
She's some other woman pretending to be my mother."	是个假装成我母亲的女人"。
She's some other woman. She's an impostor."	她一定是别的女人，是个假冒的。"
This has never made much sense to me, this argument.	我从来不觉得这样的论辩有道理。
There are neurons there that are sensitive to faces.	那里有对面部感知的神经元。
Is it prey? Is it predator? Is it mate?	那是猎物，是捕食者，是配偶，
There's no delusion through the phone.	通过电话就不产生错觉了。
Is it nature, genes, or is it nurture?	是自然、基因、还是养育的作用？
And this is a serious clinical problem.	这可是个严重的临床问题。
So, how do you treat this syndrome?	那么你要怎么治疗这种综合症呢？
Now, why do you get a paralyzed phantom limb?	为什么会有人觉得幻肢麻痹？
Now, how do you help these patients?	你要怎么帮助这些病人呢？
Maybe you can relieve the phantom pain, the phantom cramp.	说不定就会减轻幻肢疼痛和痉挛了。
It was a paralyzed phantom arm.	这是一个"习得行麻痹"的手臂。
But he's not stupid. He knows it's not real.	他不傻，知道这不是真实的，
"And move your normal hand."	"动一下你正常的那只手。""
"Oh, nothing. It's clenched again."	"厄，感觉不到了，它又绷紧了。"
So, he was like a kid in a candy store.	他就像个进了糖果店的小孩。
It's a completely useless ability, if you think about it.	细想之下，这种完全无用的能力，
So he said OK, and he took it home.	他说好啊，他就带它回家。
I thought maybe the mirror box was gone.	我还以为镜盒可能不见了。
It's because the brain is faced with tremendous sensory conflict.	因为脑面临巨大的感觉冲突，
It's getting messages from vision saying the phantom is back.	它收到视觉信号，说幻肢又回来了；
Bear in mind, these people are completely normal in other respects.	记住，这些人其他方面完全正常。
In us, all the senses are distinct.	对我们来说，感觉之间是不同的，
OK, what is synesthesia? What causes it?	好了，什么是共感，成因是什么？
One theory is they're just crazy.	一种理论认为，他们就是疯了而已。
Why would there be crossed wires in some people?	为什么有些人会发生串线呢？
Remember I said it runs in families?	记得我说过这是家族遗传的。
Instantly, you've found the links.	你马上就能领会其中的联系。
Different shapes for different phonemes, right?	不同的音素有着不同的形状,对吧?
So, they completely miss the metaphorical meaning.	他完全不明白其中的比喻意义。
Their sexual behavior is too human-like for most of us to be comfortable with.	因为太像人了大多数人难以接受。
And sexual behavior is not confined to one aspect of their life that they sort of set aside.	性行为不仅限于生活的一部分。
And so everything sort of has a place that it has to fit.	任何事物有其特定的位置。
Maybe it's his ability to have causal thought.	也许是我们的逻辑思维能力。
To our knowledge they had no music.	据我所知，他们也没有音乐。
Right now, he's in a forest in Georgia.	它现在生活在乔治亚州的森林里。
And she came to us when she was just at puberty, about six or seven years of age.	它大约在青春期来到，六七岁左右。
One discovery was that wild Bonobos often walk bidpedally.	矮黑猩猩常常直立行走是发现之一。
None of the things you will see in this particular video are trained.	你在这里看到的都不是训练而来的。
I have a lighter in my pocket if you need one.	你要的话，我口袋里有个打火机。
These are happy vocalizations.	这是它们高兴时发出的声音。
You've got to put some water on the fire. You see the water?	你得把水浇在火上。看到水没有？
This is her first time to try to drive a golf cart.	它第一次试着开高尔夫车。
It means "star" in Swahili.	在斯瓦希里语里是猩猩的意思。
He can now cut through tough animal hide.	它现在可以打开坚韧的兽皮。
The tough hide is difficult to cut, even with a knife.	即使用刀，坚韧的兽皮也很难划开。
Compare the chalk writing with the lexigram on the keyboard.	比较一下粉笔笔迹和键盘上的符号。
The curved line is very similar to the lexigram.	这条曲线和键盘上的符号很像。
Then he peers eagerly into his mother's mouth.	它很好奇地看着母亲的嘴里。
Researcher: OK, now get the monsters. Get them.	OK，现在去吃怪物。抓住它们。
And they're learning to become like us.	同时，它们在学习成为我们。
In six billion years, the sun will look like that.	六十亿年后，太阳将变成这样。
That's a challenge for 21st-century science.	那将是21世纪科学面临的挑战。
The micro-world of the quantum is understood.	微观的量子世界已被了解。
Well, let's go back to this picture.	好吧，让我们回到这张图片。
And more than that, it's engendering new kinds of change.	以至于还产生了全新的改变。
It may change this century.	在本世纪中改变即将来临。
We have to accept that there will be hazards.	我们不得不接受科技可能带来危害。
What would they have seen?	它们会看到过哪些景象呢？
Successions of new species emerged, evolved and became extinct.	新的物种交替产生，进化直至灭绝。
This signaled the start of agriculture.	这标志着人类农业的开端。
Then other things happened even more abruptly.	接下来某些更加显著的变化发生了。
Some journeyed to the moons and planets.	有些甚至被发射到月球或其他行星。
Or will the biosphere stabilize?	又或者整个生物圈稳定下来？
And I want to suggest today that, in fact, that's wrong.	但我今天想告诉你其实恰恰相反
And it ruins their social relationships, in fact.	这实际上毁掉了他们的人际关系
and fantasizing about what they'd do.	并且幻想着他们中奖后的事情
So the first way that we did this.	这就是我们的第一种实验方式
And we manipulated how much money we gave them.	我们事先安排好了信封里的钱数
So some people got this slip of paper and five dollars.	所以一些人会得到一张纸和5美元
What did they spend it on?	那么他们是怎么花掉这笔钱的呢？
People gave money to homeless people.	也有一些人把这些钱给了流浪汉
Huge effect here of Starbucks.	还有很多人把钱花在了星巴克
They're also fairly wealthy and affluent and all these other sorts of things.	他们相对来说还是比较富裕的人群
So for example, one guy from Uganda says this.	比如说一个乌干达人曾这样说
But then we see extraordinary differences.	但是我们确实发现了一些明显的差别
This is a woman from Canada.	这里有一位来自加拿大的女性
So it's a very small amount of money, in fact.	所以事实上那是一笔很少的钱
Or are they negatively correlated?	还是说它们是负相关的呢？
So these are sales teams in Belgium.	这些是来自比利时的销售团队
Buy them something as a gift or a present and give it to them.	"为他们买件礼物然后送给他们。"
You don't get any money from that.	你并没有从中得到任何的钱
The teacher writes you a thank you note. The kids write you a thank you note.	这些老师和学生都会给你写感谢信
It's an extraordinary thing.	这是一件很令人开心的事情
The judge was not impressed to the tune of 10.9 million dollars.	法官因此罚了他们1090万美元。
Let's look at some data from the U.K. now.	现在让我们看看英国的一些数据。
Yes, certainly you can do it over here.	是的，在这里你也可以做。
So, that was government data.	所以，这也是政府的数据。
I was not the only person editing the open street map.	我不是唯一编辑公开地图的人。
You can see Europe is ablaze with updates.	你看见欧洲的更新非常频繁。
Some places, perhaps not as much as they should be.	有些地方反而更新程度没有跟上。
There are two elections every election cycle in Lesterland.	这个国家的每次选举有两种投票。
Number one, the United States is Lesterland.	第一，美国就是莱斯特国。
But you must do extremely well.	但你必须表现得非常出色。
The corruption I'm talking about is perfectly legal.	我所说的腐败贪污是完全合法。
We need a government that works.	我们需要一个有在做事的政府。
I get this cynicism. I get this sense of impossibility.	我明白这种无奈，这种不可能性。
What is that sense of hopelessness?"	"这种绝望是什么感觉?"
And what hit me was an image of my six-year-old son.	让我顿悟的是我六岁的儿子。
A republic. A representative democracy.	一个共和，一个代表性的民主。
A government dependent upon the people alone.	一个'单独'取决于人民的政府。
We have lost that republic.	我们已经失去了这个共和。
Now we have the good fortune to open up space.	而现在我们将有幸开拓宇宙空间。
And it is for those in the future to envy us our joy."	未来的人们将会羡慕我们的成就。"
It exploded an arms race.	并因此引发了两国之间的军备竞赛。
One day they'll get here.	假若有一天他们会站在这儿。
At least that's what it says on my pen."	至少这就是我的笔要说的话。"
I can feel your noise.	我可以感受到你们的噪音和认同。
Maybe no one's really crazy.	或许没有人是真正的疯狂。
How much depends on how lucky you are.	也多少取决于你有多幸运。
It didn't occur to me you'd increase your frequency.	但我并没有想到你们会提高频率。
This is a room full of intelligent people, highly sensitive.	这屋里满是智慧的人，非常敏感。
Some trained musicians out there.	那里还坐着一些训练有素的音乐家。
Is that what enabled you to synchronize?	可是，是这些使你们可以同步的吗？
Do you even need a brain at all just to synchronize?	甚至，你们是不是要有大脑才可以？
It extends from the subatomic scale to the farthest reaches of the cosmos.	它由亚原子尺度延伸至星系之间。
Let me be quiet for a second because this is so gorgeous.	让我沉默一会儿，这是如此精彩。
Now, fish like to stay close together, about a body length apart.	鱼比较倾向于靠近，间隔一个身长。
Each is scattering away at random to try to save its scales or feathers.	每一次的分散都只是为了自己保命。
See if you can see those waves propagating through the swarm.	试着观察群中不断增长的浪潮。
You can see it every night along the river banks.	河岸边，每晚都可以看见。
Then on, and then off -- a 30th of a second, there.	亮，暗——这是三十分之一秒。
Well, you don't have to be a whole creature.	你根本不需要是一个生命体。
Like, take, for instance, your pacemaker cells in your heart right now.	就好像你心脏里的起搏细胞一样。
They're keeping you alive.	没有它们，你我可活不下去。
Now, your pacemaker is not a single cell.	你的起搏器并不是单一细胞。
Anyway, so this is the world's smallest metronome.	可这确实是世界上最小的节拍器。
Maybe you'd better listen to them. I'll stand here.	你们可能最好听着。我站在这里。
And the reason is that they're not able to communicate.	原因是它们之间没有办法交流。
Now, you might think that's a bizarre idea.	现在你们或许觉得这是个怪主意。
Well, they can communicate through mechanical forces.	它们可以通过机械力交流。
And a clear case of that, was something that happened in London in the year 2000.	举例来说，2000年时在伦敦，
Now, everyone was very excited to try it out.	所有人都跃跃欲试把它建起来。
And within two days the bridge was closed to the public.	两天内桥就对公众关闭了。
Think of the bridge as being like this platform.	把那座桥想像成这个平台。
And especially if we start to walk like those people did, right?	特别是当我们像那些人那样走时。
They're all having some difficulty walking.	他们都只是觉得走起来有点难。
You don't see it in the newspaper every day.	你不会每天在报纸上看到它。
It's a bit of a personal example, in fact.	实际上，是我亲身的体验。
They gave them their name.	他们给了苹果他们的名字。
The bad news is they're extinct.	不幸的是，它们已经灭绝了。
One thing is that there is no such thing as a best one.	一个就是，没有什么所谓最好的。
And for that reason, we ought to be saving it.	就为这个原因，我们就应该挽救它。
I don't know. Can fish play the piano?	我不知道。鱼能弹钢琴吗？
It's two breeding cycles for maize.	这也就是两个玉米育种周期。
We have two rolls of the dice to get this right.	我们有两轮得机会来赌一把。
In Rwanda, in the Solomon Islands.	在卢旺达，在所罗门群岛。
This is a backup system for world agriculture.	这是我们农业系统的备份。
Agriculture takes 70 percent of fresh water supplies on earth.	农业用去了地球上70%的新鲜水。
But it's a necessary thing to do.	但是也是非常必须的事情。
We need to collect the remaining diversity that's out there.	我们需要去收集余下的多样化物种。
And we need to support it financially.	而且我们必须有资金上的支持。
So we need to be thinking a little bit in those terms.	所以我们必须在这些方面想一想。
Somebody has to take the lead, and I decided to do it.	总得有人带头，于是我决定这么做
We will talk today about local warming.	今天我们将讨论局部变暖。
And be careful, your genes are in danger.	并且请小心，你的基因在危险之中。
Will geeks become endangered species?	技术怪才们将会濒临绝种么?
But let's keep things in proportion.	但是让我们恰如其分的看待事情。
You should stay cool with the appropriate clothing.	你应该穿上合适的衣物来保持凉爽。
You are great. This is the correct posture.	你们很棒。这是正确的姿势。
Anybody feels threatened, anybody really need it?	有人觉得很危险，需要这个吗？
Well, who was inspired during that time period?	那么，在这段时期，谁被鼓舞了？
Well, what did I do when I was a kid?	那么，我小时候做了什么？
Three years, and we can't do that now. Crazy.	三年，而我们现在做不到了。
There is no growth. There's no activity. There's no nothing.	没有进步。没有活动。什么也没有。
This is a picture here taken from SpaceShipOne.	这张照片取自一号太空飞船。
Well, first of all, what's going to happen next?	那么，首先，接下来会发生什么？
There's another one announced just last week.	上周有另一个公司宣布它们可以。
And the inventor is in this audience.	而发明者就坐在观众席里。
So fun is defendable.	所以乐趣是应该被保护的。
And in it also brings up another point, right here.	里面也提出了另一个观点，就在这。
What's out there is there's something really interesting going to happen here.	外面正在发生一些非常有趣的事情。
And then they flew a few cargo flights, and took it out of service.	他们飞过一些货物航班，然后退役。
The technology revolution is opening the world.	技术革新正在开放这个世界。
I said, these kids are different.	我说过，这些孩子是不同的。
It's sort of like, I have no fear of a refrigerator.	这就有点像我不会惧怕冰箱一样。
I had to learn the language.	我不得不去学习这种"语言"。
I mean, think about Wall Street.	我的意思是，想象一下华尔街。
And we need to change and open up all of our institutions.	我们需要改革开放我们所有的体制。
So he does a "radical" thing.	所以他做了一件疯狂的事情。
He viewed talent differently.	他用不同的眼光看待天赋。
He wondered, who are their peers?	他想知道，谁是他们的同伙？
Now secondly, openness is about transparency.	那么第二点，开放是关于透明化。
They'd better be good.	这些产品最好真的是好产品。
Transparency is about the communication of information.	透明化是关于信息的传递。
Sharing is about giving up assets, intellectual property.	分享则是关于放弃财产，知识产权。
And I'm not talking about the motherhood sense here.	我不是要在这里讨论母性意识。
Now, take the Arab Spring.	比如说，"阿拉伯之春"。
And then it ended up having a whole bunch of other words too.	然后最终演变出一大串其它词。
It was a tool of self-defense.	这是一种自我防卫的工具。
So this is a time of great change.	因此，这是一个巨大变革的时代。
Now, it's not without its problems.	但也不能说不存在任何问题。
But that doesn't matter, because this is moving forward.	但这无关紧要，因为它正在前进。
The train has left the station. The cat is out of the bag.	火车离开了车站。猫蹦出了袋子。
The horse is out of the barn. Help me out here, okay?	马跑出了马厩。帮帮我，好吗？
I mean, we're not putting this one back.	我的意思是，我们不是在倒退。
The open world is bringing empowerment and freedom.	开放的世界将带来权力与自由。
So we saw the Protestant Reformation.	因此我们看到了新教改革。
But it came with a cost.	但都需要付出一定的代价。
Now, this thing has a function.	现在，这件事有了一种功能性。
Could we start to share our intelligence?	我们能否开始分享我们的智慧呢？
So why should we care about blood vessels?	那我们为什么应该关注血管呢？
His veterinarian only gave him three months to live.	它的兽医曾说它只有3个月生命。
So let me show you a couple of even more interesting examples.	让我向你们展示几个更有趣的例子。
So we created an antiangiogenic paste.	我们制造了一种反血管增生的药膏。
But for other tumors and cancer types, the improvements have only been modest.	但对其他肿瘤和癌症，改善不大。
So here's a test system we developed.	这是我们发明的一个测试系统。
So here are four different teas that we've tested.	这是我们测试过的四种不同的茶。
And the bottom curve is the weight of a normal mouse.	下面这个曲线是正常老鼠的体重。
And that's what I think the world needs now. Thank you.	我认为现在世界正需要这个。谢谢。
they're not exactly in mainstream cancer treatments right now.	它们不真正是现在癌症治疗的主流。
And that's certainly something that anybody can look into.	那是一些每个人都能察看的。
I've designed puzzles for books, printed things.	我为各种书籍，印刷品设计游戏。
And so here is what I came up with. I start fiddling with it.	这就是我的成果。我开始折纸。
So, what else could it be?	那么，这到底是哪个字母呢？
Yeah, a lot of you got it.	哈哈，还是有很多人猜出来啦。
Oh yeah. So, clever thing.	是的，一个调皮的小玩意儿。
You can create one out of Legos.	你可以用乐高创造你自己的玩具。
I consider that puzzles are an art form.	我觉得益智游戏是一种艺术。
Here is what I did with figure and ground.	下面是我利用图像和背景所做的。
So, here we have "figure" in black.	所以，我们这里有黑色的"图像"。
A few other things. Here is my name.	再看其他的一些。这个是我的名字。
Each letter here is one of these digits.	这儿每个字母都是其中一个数字。
I like pushing on what an ambigram can mean.	我喜欢推进到双向图的意义。
This appears in my puzzle calendar.	这个也出现在我的游戏月历上。
Okay, let's go back to the slides.	好，让我们回到幻灯片上来。
Now, those are fun to look at.	这些都是看起来好玩的东西。
Now how would you do it interactively?	但是你怎么做成互动的呢？
And so I think a lot about interaction.	因此我思考了很多关于互动的问题。
But that is also true of any white area.	但是任何白色区域也可以。
Here is another thing you can do.	这个是另一个你可以做的事。
It's made by the company Think Fun.	它是由ThinkFun公司做的。
Okay, so how would you solve this one?	好，那么你们怎么解决这一个？
Now, this one is a little bit trickier.	现在，这个有点难对付了。
You know? What do you do here?	你知道么？你们会怎么做？
I came up with this. This is Railroad Rush Hour.	我创作了这个。这是铁路尖峰时刻。
In the other game the cars can only move forward and back.	在其他游戏中汽车只能前后移动。
Now I'm making it available to schools.	现在我正在把它推广到学校。
And it has to be solvable in a magazine.	而且恰好它在杂志里被解决了。
There is only one solution. It's not that hard.	只有一个答案。没有那么难。
Which way will these fall?	它们会以哪种方式掉下来？
And here is a puzzle based on color mixing.	这儿还有一个基于混合颜色的游戏。
This is what's going on in the games industry right now.	这是游戏产业正在进行着的。
Well, guess what? That's changing.	可是你猜怎么着？情况变了。
It's games that fit into a healthy lifestyle.	适合健康的生活方式的游戏。
And we decided to combine our skills.	我们决定将我们的技能结合起来。
This is your first time playing my game. Okay.	这是你们第一次玩我的游戏。好。
And we have 24 seconds each.	而我们每张图都有二十四秒。
I'll play as fast as I can.	我会尽我最快的速度来玩。
But if you can see it, shout out the answer.	如果你们能看出来，喊出答案。
To be a boy really means not to be a girl.	它只意味着不要成为一名女孩。
To be a woman means not to be a girl.	成为女人也意味着不应成为女孩。
To be a leader means not to be a girl.	成为领导也意味着不可成为女孩。
For me, it was the turning point of my life.	对我来说，那是一个人生的转折点
And I want to say we've annihilated it in men as well as in women.	不单在男人身上，也在女人身上
And I will tell you a very funny story.	告诉你们一件很好笑的事。
I've seen girls be treated like garbage cans.	还有人会把女孩子当成垃圾场
Girls are trained to please.	人们训练女孩去"取悦"他人
I want us all to change the verb.	我希望大家都可以改变这个动词
And I asked her if she loved her baby.	我问她，是否喜欢这个孩子
They kidnapped her, they put her in a car.	他们绑架了她，把她丢到车上
And she said, "Well, now, I need a house."	她说，"我需要一所房子"
And there was a young girl named Jaclyn.	其中有一个叫Jaclyn的女孩
So cows are dying, and cows are the most valued possession.	牛是她们最为值钱的财产也陆续死去
And she knew that meant she would be cut.	她知道那意味着自己要被割
For me, that is the power of girls.	我认为，这就是少女的力量
This is called "I'm An Emotional Creature."	这段话标题是"我是一个情感动物"
And it happened because I met a girl in Watts, L.A.	它源于我在洛杉矶遇到的一个女孩
I'm an emotional creature!"	因为我是一个情感动物！"
I can feel the invisible stirrings in the air.	我还能感知那看不见的空气的震动
Oh, I know when the coconut's about to fall.	我知道椰子什么时候会掉到地上
I know we have pushed the Earth too far.	我知道我们对地球伤害太多
And you know what? Sometimes it should.	知道吗？有时候确实应该这样
You don't tell the Atlantic Ocean to behave.	你不可能指挥太平洋怎样做
Straightforward, fair trial, full investigation.	情节简单，审判公正，调查完整。
We know that eyewitness identifications are fallible.	目击证人的证词不是绝对准确的。
As you can see, it is at best poor.	我们可以看到，非常的暗。
This is the car 30 feet away from the judge.	法官距离汽车三十英尺远，
There's an arm sticking out of the passenger side and pointed back at you.	从副驾驶座这边伸出一只手指着你。
He was totally stoic. I couldn't see a twitch of his eyebrow.	他面无表情，连眉毛都没动一下。
And this is three to four feet away.	这只有三到四英尺的距离。
This is him embracing his grandmother-in-law.	这是他拥抱他女友外婆时的照片。
And what does this example -- what's important to keep in mind for ourselves?	通过这个案例我们应该牢记住什么？
The opposing council always fight it and oppose it.	抗诉方始终反对并对抗着这种愚昧。
We all have to be very careful.	我们每个人就应该万分小心
Your body is covered with fractals.	你们全身都被"分形"包围着。
Nature uses self-organizing systems.	大自然是一个自组织系统。
This is a village in southern Zambia.	这是赞比亚南部的一个村落，
You have a huge ring.	首先我们有一个很大的环形。
So here's a little fractal model for it.	这就是这个村落的分形模型。
Once again, infinity is important.	这再次说明，无限是非常重要的。
You can see on the pottery and the baskets.	你可以在陶器和篮子上看到它们。
It's a shared technology in Africa.	在非洲这是一种众人皆知的技术。
But sometimes, that's not the case.	但有些时候，情况则不尽相同。
Even plus even gives you even. Odd plus odd gives you even.	偶数加偶数得偶；奇数加奇数得偶。
Anybody in the world can use them.	世界上的任何人都可以使用它们。
We've started a pilot program in Ghana.	我们在加纳启动了一个试验项目。
We've also been working in design.	我们也在设计方面不断努力。
It's in ecological sustainability.	它体现于生态的可持续性，
It's also in some bad things.	它也体现在一些坏的事情当中。
So here's the good news about families.	我这有一条关于家庭的好消息。
Now, here's the bad news.	现在，我要说一条坏消息。
Our children sense we're out of control.	我们的孩子感觉到我们失控了。
He was very frustrated with how software got designed.	他对当时的软件设计方法感到沮丧。
Nothing takes longer than two weeks.	任何事情都在两个星期内完成。
You succeed or fail quickly.	你很快就知道是否行得通。
"That's what I thought," she said.	"我原来也这么想，"她说。
With kids, it's heaven."	对于孩子们，这跟天堂一样。"
Our kids love this process.	我们的孩子很爱这个过程。
So they would come up with all these ideas.	他们会想出各种各样的主意。
So what did we learn?	所以我们从中学到了什么？
We've got to hook them up with parents.	父母们需要将这些结合起来。
But then her sister started working the system.	但是她妹妹开始改进这个系统。
Now give us a punishment. Okay.	现在给我们一个惩罚。好的
There's plenty of parental authority going on.	我们保留了很多父母的权威。
And by the way, research backs this up too.	顺便说一下，也有研究支持这一点。
So the bottom line is, empower your children.	所以底线就是，给你的孩子权利。
Adaptability is fine, but we also need bedrock.	适应性很好，但是我们还需要基石。
We did the family equivalent of a corporate retreat.	我们做了一个家庭版的企业活动。
And we ended up with 10 statements.	我们最后得出了十条定论。
One of our daughters had gotten into a spat.	我们的一个女儿与人发生了争执。
Do you know where your grandparents were born?	你知道你的祖父祖母在哪里出生吗？
Do you know where your parents went to high school?	你知道你父母在哪里上的高中吗？
Each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way."	不幸的家庭各有各的不幸。"
Of course all happy families aren't alike."	幸福的家庭当然不都是一样的。"
In the end, this may be the greatest lesson of all.	最后，这可能是最伟大的一堂课。
What's the secret to a happy family? Try.	幸福家庭的秘密是什么？是尝试。
Superhydrophobic is how we measure a drop of water on a surface.	它是用来测量一个表面上的水滴的。
A windshield coating is going to give you about 110 degrees.	一扇挡风玻璃涂层大概是110度。
You'd think it'd be smooth, but it's actually not.	你可能以为它会很光滑，其实不是。
Without water, the bacteria won't survive.	没有水，细菌就不会存活。
It's going to happen. Wait for it. Wait for it.	结果会出来的，等一下，等一下，
The explorers slaughtered the braves. Sweeney: Horribly.	探险家们杀戮了勇者。很残忍
Lewis Carroll I'm sure did Alice. Sweeney: What?!	我肯定路易斯卡罗干过爱丽丝
Do you guys know about that movie "The Secret"?	你们知道这部电影"秘密"吗？
That movie is so horrible. It promotes such awful pseudoscience.	这部电影烂透了，宣传糟糕的伪科学
Tree. Chair. Girl.	"树"，"椅子"，"女孩"。
Probably a form of synesthesia.	这也许是一种特殊的感知力，
But Tesla's success didn't last.	但他的成功没能持续下去。
His legacy is with us still.	但他带给人们的财富流传至今，
MT: Tesla thought he had the answer.	特斯拉曾经觉得他有办法。
We are still asking the question.	直到今天我们依然在问相同的问题。
Welcome. If I could have the first slide, please?	欢迎大家！能调到第一张幻灯片吗？
So, the answer is bio-mimicry: just copy nature directly.	所以它们的答案是:直接复制自然
Instead, we believe you need to be inspired by biology.	我觉得应该是从生物中得到灵感
Nobody in biology ever modeled it this way.	生物学里还没有人这么建模过呢
Now, why is this important to have this model?	为什么这个模型很重要呢？
And here's one example that's really exciting.	这儿有个真正带劲儿的例子
It goes up to four meters per second when it runs.	跑起来速度能高达四米每秒
The animal ran over it and it didn't even slow down!	动物飞奔而过，甚至都没有减速
It didn't decrease its preferred speed at all.	它一点都不乐意牺牲自己习惯的速度
Like if we had a piece of tape now, we'd peel it this way.	比方说像我们这么剥开一条带子
Here's the animal that we have here, running on a vertical surface.	这是我们的动物正在垂直面上跑
See it uncurl and then peel these toes.	看看它翻开又剥张这些脚趾
But that's what we're limited to, at the moment.	但是我们现在只有这个可用
What does the animal do? The animal has weird toes.	动物怎么做呢？它有怪异的脚趾
Think of the contact of that that's possible.	想象一下它们能形成的接触
When we measured the forces, they were enormous.	当我们测量受力时发现大得惊人
We've recently discovered this. Do they do it by friction?	我们最近发现了。是摩擦力吗?
No, force is too low. Do they do it by electrostatics?	不是，摩擦力太小了。是静电吗？
How about wet adhesion? Or capillary adhesion?	湿粘合呢？或者毛细管作用呢？
The numbers tell the story quite clearly.	这些数据很清楚地告诉我们这实情。
How do we change these numbers at the top?	我们怎样改变这些高管职位的比例？
How do we make this different?	我们怎样使这个变得不同？
What are the messages we need to tell ourselves?	我们要告诉给自己的事是什么？
What are the messages we tell our daughters?	我们要告诉给我们女儿的事是什么？
This is hard. I feel guilty sometimes.	这很难受。有时我感到内疚。
Don't you love that kind of thing from college?	你们喜爱大学的这类课程嘛。
"You got the top grade in the class?	"你会是班里考得最好的？
Women do not negotiate for themselves in the workforce.	女性在职场不会为自身利益去谈判。
Obviously. Why are you even asking?"	这是显而易见的。这还用问吗？"
I wish I could tell that to my daughter.	我希望我也能告诉我的女儿。
But that one word made a really big difference.	但这个词就造成了非常大的差异。
I learned that I need to keep my hand up."	我知道我需要举起我的手。"
We've got to get women to sit at the table.	我们得让女性坐到桌子边上。
The data shows this very clearly.	数据也很清楚地表明这点。
I think the cause is more complicated.	我认为理由是更加复杂化的。
And she said, "Oh no, I'm not married."	她说，"哦不，我还没结婚。"
I said, "You're thinking about this just way too early."	我说，"你考虑这个太早了吧。"
You need to feel like you're making a difference.	你得感觉到世界因你而变。
I think it would be a better world.	我认为它将会是一个更美好的世界。
Because we are all patients, we are all people.	我们都是病人，我们也都是人。
It goes all the way back to Aristotle.	这可以追溯到亚里士多德的时代。
We talk about it in terms of engagement, or non-compliance.	他们把如下行为归为不配合治疗。
So that was the low-fear group.	这是针对低恐惧群体的做法。
They showed bloody gums.	他们给这些人展示血淋淋的牙龈，
You'll eat mush for the rest of your life.	在你的下半生里你只能吃糊状物
Now they measured one other variable.	接着他们测量了另一个变量。
This is a campaign from the American Diabetes Association.	这是美国糖尿病协会的一次活动。
And I don't know if it works.	我不确定这么做是否起作用。
And here's how they work in the feedback loop.	它们在反馈圈中是这样起作用的。
We either keep going fast, or we slow down.	我们要么保持原速，要么减速。
Your blood pressure might drop a little bit.	你的血压可能没那么高了。
But it looks completely right.	但是它看起来完全没问题。
Who among us would actually say that people read this?	我们中间有谁认为人们会读这一页？
This is a bankrupt effort at communicating health information.	这是医疗信息沟通的昏庸之举。
And finally, you understand what those choices are.	最后，你明确了自己有哪些选择。
So I love this. I love that drug facts box.	我特别喜欢这个药物说明表。
Blood test results are this great source of information.	这一大堆信息是血液检测的结果。
This is the worst presented information.	这样的信息表述实在是糟透了。
So that's what I want to walk you through.	我给大家简短地展示一下。
So that's our general blood work test.	这就是我们做的常规血液检测报告。
In this case, it's a sin of omission.	这是一个信息严重缺失的案例。
Then we use the information that's already in the lab report.	接着我们用上了测试报告上的信息。
Here's the before, and here's the after.	这是修改之前，这是之后。
We again personalized the risks.	我们再次根据个人情况评估风险。
And then again, the follow-up actions.	下面列出了应采取的对策。
But we're not using it. It's just sitting there.	它近在咫尺，但我们却不去用它。
But you can create your own feedback loop.	但是你可以创造自己的反馈圈。
What are my options? What choices are now on the table?	我有哪些选择？哪些做法的可行的？
That's what engagement is. It's different from compliance.	这才是真正的参与；不同于服从。
It's a simple idea about nature.	这是关于自然界的一个简单想法
Let me tell you where I got it.	现在告诉大家我是如何领悟的。
And I realized then, I wasn't either.	然后我意识到，我也不是。
The competition of grasses, right?	禾草类植物之间的竞争，对吧？
And I would submit that this idea does this.	我认为这个想法确实能做到这一点。
It is part of corn's scheme for world domination.	部分是--玉米统治世界的阴谋。
This is a farm in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia.	它位于维吉尼亚的谢南多厄河谷。
what else does he have?	还有什么，其他的还有什么来着？
Cows graze one day. They move, OK?	一天牛在吃草，它们移动着，
So, it's a very productive system.	所以这是一个非常高效多产的系统。
But look at it from the point of view of the grass, now.	不过现在从草的角度审视这一切。
More for us, less for nature.	我们得到越来越多，自然越来越少。
It's a remarkably hopeful thing to do.	这是一件十分美好和有前途的事情。
There are a lot of farmers doing this today.	有许多农夫都开始采用这种方法。
Do you know about the parent-teacher conference?	你们知道什么是家长会吗？
And that always stuck with me all my life.	这个事情一直都让我困惑不解。
It would say you're wrong most of the time.	大多数情况下它都会说命令错误。
It was called the Human Powered Computer Experiment.	我将其命名为人类动力计算机实验。
It's a room broken in two halves.	那是一个被分成两半的房间。
Remember that excitement?	还记得当时那种兴奋的感觉吗？
You see this little pattern here?	你发现这其中微妙的规律了吗？
Or fear like this, kind of a nightclub typeface.	而这种字体，感觉像夜店。
It just changes the same content.	相同的内容，感觉却不一样。
Or you change the typeface to something like this.	或者，你还可以把字体改为这样。
This was a square that responds to sound.	这是一个对声音有反应的方块。
It's called "Tap, Type, Write."	我将其命名为"点，打，写。"
Ten variations. This is, like, spin the letter around.	十种变化，这种是左右转动字母。
I'll show this last one. This is about balance, you know.	最后一种作品，是有关平衡的。
And why do we have this facility?	我们为什么要有这样的实验室？
And he realized, it isn't about old or new.	他意识到，新媒体无关乎旧或新。
A combination of the cloud and the dirt is where the action is at.	云和泥土的组合才是新媒体。
We aren't functioning so easily anymore.	社会不像以前那样单一了。
We aren't a simple authoritarian regime anymore.	现在再也不是简单的独裁政权。
You know? It's all these one-on-one meetings for like four days.	这样一对一的会议，持续了四天。
And it felt kind of like being president, actually.	感觉就像当总统一样，真的。
They're targeted social media systems around leaders.	它们关注于领导人的社交圈。
And this is sort of a new concept, and it's really important.	这是一种新的概念，很重要的概念。
They're not very well designed, right?	这种消费游戏设计的不好，对吧?
Hopefully for good.	当然我们希望是好的影响。
There's still a lot to explore.	但是还有很多值得开发的地方。
So, the social layer is all about these connections.	网络社交圈是处理人与人关系的，
So the first one, it's a very simple game dynamic.	第一个，很简单的玩游戏的动机。
And this is simply an appointment dynamic.	这是一种简单的约定动机。
You should get points for doing this on time.	当你按时吃药的话，你就能够得分。
So this is one of the most famous game dynamics.	这是最出名的游戏动机之一。
It's used all over the place.	在很多地方都可以利用它。
That sucks. Why not level-up?	这太糟了。为什么不能晋级？
I am only 85 percent complete on LinkedIn, and that bothers me.	只完成了85%，我很在意这个。
Their most dedicated players, it's like a full-time job.	最专注的玩家，恐怕是全职的。
And that really motivated people to find the best stories.	这激励人们去寻找最好的故事。
So we have to use this one carefully.	所以我们必须谨慎使用这一动机。
Really powerful dynamic.	真的是非常有效的驱动力。
This next decade is the decade of games.	接下来的十年是游戏社交的十年。
We spoke to you last several years ago.	几年前我们与大家交流过。
Now I hope all of you feel better.	现在我希望你们都感觉好些了。
But this is what helped me see it.	但，是这个帮助我看清楚那是什么。
Here it's slightly logged.	这儿只有很少一部分人登陆。
You can see that there's a lot of data running around.	你们可以看到有很多数据在运转。
So this is slowed down.	那么，这是被放慢的样子。
This is what one second looks like.	这就是一秒钟内所看到的样子。
But it didn't have quite the same pickup in the U.S.	但是在美国的受关注度却没有
Okay, not very many people know about it.	好了，没有很多人知道Orkut。
That's how we churn those products out.	这也是我们如何推出产品的方式。
This is our VP of Engineering.	这是我们工程部的副总裁。
And now we've grown to over 100,000 members.	现在我们已经有超过10万名会员。
Larry, you can explain this one.	Larry，你可以解释一下这个。
And we wouldn't really be sure if it's going to work or not.	我们不是很确定这是否可行。
And the top thing, actually, is the Deskbar.	第一个就是Google桌面搜索。
How many of you use the Deskbar?	有多少人用Google桌面搜索？
And it's sort of like a better version of the toolbar.	它有些像是改进版的工具栏。
You want it to be consistent.	你们希望它是始终如一的。
Why don't we try changing it every day?"	我们为什么不每天都变一下呢？"
I don't have to do my other job now."	我现在不需要做别的工作了。"
It would be artificial intelligence.	以后的搜索引擎会是人工智能型。
He was just kind of writing about his life.	他只是在写关于自己的生活。
Why don't they like my blog?"	他们为什么不喜欢我的博客？"
I thought, at the time, I did a pretty good job.	我当时想我做得是不错的。
Amusing? Yes. Desirable? Maybe.	它们有趣吗？有趣。合意吗？也许。
His greatest creation runs actually right through here in Oxford.	他最伟大的创造正穿过牛津这里。
One journey from London to New York.	完成一次从伦敦至纽约的旅程。
Now I'm not trying to throw stones here.	我不是要在这里反对什么。
The first of those is that design is human-centered.	第一个想法是设计是以人为本的。
What makes technology useful and usable?	什么使科技更有用和更方便使用？
They make their own intraocular lenses.	他们制造自己的人工晶状体，
So why design thinking?	但是为什么是设计思维呢？
So these are some that we've been asked to think about recently.	这些就是我们近些年要开始思考的。
So they developed and iterated these ideas.	所以他们不断的开发他们的想法。
Some of those ideas are just getting launched into the market.	其中有些想法已经投入市场了。
So that's one thing that we've been working on.	所以这是我们在着手做事情之一。
But I really like my tea sweet."	但是我想要喝甜的绿茶。"
"One does not put sugar in green tea."	我们从来不在绿茶里加糖。
Resting on the saucer were two packets of sugar.	只见茶托上赫然躺着两小包糖。
In America, the primary locus of choice is the individual.	在美国，选择的主要焦点在于个人。
Yet that is exactly what the American paradigm demands.	这恰恰就是美国最需要的典范行为。
Let's test this assumption by heading over to Eastern Europe.	让我们在东欧验证一下这个假设。
It's all just soda. That's just one choice."	反正都是汽水，都是一种选择啦。"
We do not need everything that is there."	我们不需要那么多东西。"
To examine this, let's go back to the U.S.	为了验证，我们把视线放回美国，
Unable to breathe on her own, she was put on a ventilator.	无法自己呼吸。她靠呼吸机供氧。
They had all suffered the same tragedy.	他们都经历了同样的悲剧。
But there was a big difference.	但这其中却有很大的差别。
How did they get me to do that?"	他们怎么可以让我做这个？"
"Well, it's a very elegant shade of pink."	"它是一种非常优雅的粉色"
The other lady tells me to wear "Adorable."	另一个则告诉我涂"粉可爱"
What if the entire boat changes shape?	整艘船的形状能够改变会怎样呢？
We're catching wind from both sides.	我们在两个方向都兜住了风
Essentially, open hardware is a license.	实际上，硬件开源是一个协议
What's next for us?	对我们来说下一步是什么？
So that's what we're looking for developing.	那就是我们希望完成的东西
PH: Would you like to be the president of a TV network?	你想不想成为一个电视网的总裁呢？
Girl 5: Because they're going to lose all their money eventually.	因为他们最终都会损失很多金钱
I'm going to do a summer internship at Time Warner.	我打算到时代华纳做暑期工
Doesn't work out too well for them, they lose money.	运行效果不是很好他们在亏本
Warner, of course, writes off more than 400 million dollars.	华南因为这次损失了四亿的美金
PH: You know, that one computer was huge.	你知道，这台电脑是非常巨大的
That's the way we get some of the magic into it, boys and girls.	这就是我们如何将神奇的东西带进去
The Grateful Dead was playing in the pizza parlors.	感恩而死乐队在一家比萨店里演奏
And into that ferment came the microprocessor.	微处理器在动乱的时候来了
Feed your head, feed your head, feed your head."	喂你的头脑喂你的头脑喂你的头脑"
There was no metaphor. Was it a database?	也没有什么比喻这是一个数据库吗？
Though some were incredulous ... Man 1: The phone company!	虽然一些并不相信——电话公司
Finally, four great industrial sectors combined.	最后，四个大的工业部门结合
Telecommunications, entertainment, computing and everything else.	电信业娱乐业电脑和其他所有
Well, you know where we're going on from here.	好的你知道我们从哪里开始
And I think it's the reason that TV's so challenged.	我想这是这样原因电视被受挑战
If Internet one was about pages, now it's about people.	因特网1是关于页面现在是关于人
It's the formidable thing that is changing entertainment now.	最令人敬畏的是他正在改变娱乐产业
Obviously, we hope that the strike is -- that the issues are resolved as quickly as possible.	当然我希望罢工的问题能够尽快解决
Voice 2: You mean we'll have to live here, together?	你的意思我们还要一起住在这里？
We're in the business of connecting with consumers."	我们是做联系客户的工作。"
And I think this is beginning to happen in the entertainment business.	我想这也同时在娱乐产业发生
We are in the middle of a tremendous clash between the old and the new.	我们正处于新和旧的东西冲击中
A very common public design done in the '50s.	这是在50年代很普通的一个设计。
Wholly inconsistent with San Francisco or New York.	完全与旧金山或纽约的风格不同。
How did I get started in this business?	我是如何在这个行业上起步的呢？
He's a Spanish architect and designer.	他是西班牙的建筑家和设计师。
And, you know, that no longer exists.	要知道，它已经不存在了。
Havana is a wonderful area.	哈瓦那是一个非常好的地方。
The Dutch are good also, but the Italians are good.	荷兰的也很好，但没有意大利的好。
A lot of urban areas have been converted into parking lots in a sort of indiscriminate use.	很多城市都把停车场另为他用。
But it built a romance.	但它本身就富含浪漫色彩。
Even the parts of the airplane had French names.	甚至是飞机部件都有法语名。
So that it was something that just got into your spirit.	所以它就是恰恰能进入灵魂的事物。
So my romance was temporarily shifted.	因此我的浪漫暂时转移了。
And I went into art because they appreciated drawing.	我进入了艺术系因为他们欣赏绘画。
Studied painting; didn't do very well at that.	学习绘画。在那儿做的不是很好。
Eventually hired myself out as a designer.	终于，我成了一名设计师。
So I started doing that.	因此，我开始设计办公椅。
And that's the way I work now.	这就是我现在工作的方式。
One is: you can't accommodate everybody.	一是，你不能适应每一个人。
He said she had one of the new, better chairs.	他说，她有了一个新的更好的椅子。
I said I worked eight or nine years on it.	我是说，我在这上工作了八九年。
And stop where you want.	然后把它们停在你想要的位置。
You can put them down, essentially out of the way.	你能把它们放下来，实际上。
You feel that bone under there?	你感觉到那块骨头在那下面？
You might go to India, the Far East.	你也可能去印度，远东地区。
Well, you could develop flu-like symptoms.	接着你会出现类似感冒的症状，
And that's the nickname given to this disease.	这是登革热的另一个名称的由来。
So why is it spreading so fast?	为什么登革热蔓延得这么快？
So we must be good at killing mosquitos.	所以我们必须很好的灭蚊。
The first way is that you use larvicides.	一种方法是使用杀幼虫剂。
Now in an urban environment, that's extraordinarily difficult.	但在城市里，这非常困难。
Clearly the product you've got has got to be safe to humans.	很明显，这种产品必须对人类无害
We are going to use it in and around humans.	我们会在人群中使用这一产品
They only live a few days.	雄蚊子只能存活几天时间。
And that's exactly where we are.	这恰恰是我们想要的结果。
We can transport them around the world.	我们能把它们运到世界各地去。
So freight costs aren't our biggest problem.	所以运费不会是我们最大的问题。
There you are. We've sent mosquito eggs.	你来看看吧。我们把蚊子卵寄过去，
It's actually a little bit more precise than that.	实际情况中操作会更精准一些。
We've also done this in agriculture.	我们也把这项技术用在农业上。
So for the mosquito, it's a dead end.	对于蚊子来说，这是它们的末日。
Can geographic information make you healthy?	地理环境是否能使你身体更健康？
"Why now?" "Why here?"	为什么是现在？为什么在这儿？
"Could my doctor have warned me?"	"我的医生能否事先告诫我？"
Genetics, lifestyle and environment.	遗传基因，生活方式和环境。
Well, it can mean a lot of things.	实际上，它意味着很多事情。
Just think about that, you know, wander through your life thinking about this.	在你的生活中时不时想想这个问题。
I started off in Scranton, Pennsylvania.	我从宾夕法尼亚的斯克兰顿出发。
Well, I decided to be neighbors to a place called Rubbertown.	我打算成为橡胶镇的邻居。
It was insidious and it was really happening.	但它却是真真实实的潜在地发生了。
Okay? Almost like the highest in the nation.	甚至是整个国家最高点的。
Alright, this is what it looks like on a good day.	这个地方天气好的时候就像这样。
So, what's wrong with this picture?	现在看看，这副图片存在什么问题？
Anybody? Boy you're lucky.	有吗？这个先生你很幸运。
How many have spent it in the red places?	又有多少人居住在这些红色区域？
And this is where he has spent most of his time.	在这里他度过了大部分的时间。
Anybody got any clues? Ski. Right.	有人知道吗？是的，就是滑雪。
Did you know that data existed?	你们知道有这类数据存在吗？
And they're in the early stages of development.	这些研究都处于起步阶段，
But it will also be useful for us.	同样对于我们自己也非常有用。
Their name in your inbox -- it's all you wanted anyway.	他们的名字，在你的收件箱别无所求
I am the emperor of oranges. I am the emperor of oranges."	我是橙子大帝，我是橙子大帝。"
I think we can all agree it's a serious issue.	我想大家都同意这是个严重的问题
Why have I chosen to talk to you about the phosphorus crisis today?	为什么今天我选择谈论磷危机？
For the simple reason that nobody else is talking about it.	很简单，因为没有人谈论它
The answer is that it comes from how we farm.	回答是这跟我们如何耕种土地有关
Why do we use chemical fertilizers in agriculture?	为什么我们要在农业中使用化肥？
So, what does a plant need in order to grow?	那么，一株植物需要什么才能生长？
Because it is the most problematic chemical element.	因为这是最有问题的一个化学元素
Now, where do we find this phosphorus?	那么，我们在哪里找到这些磷呢？
As humans, where do we find it?	作为人类，我们在哪里找到它？
It's true that some humans eat better than others.	那些"吃得比别人更好的人"
Intensive agriculture is based on the use of chemical fertilizers.	密集农业以化肥使用为前提
Speaking of humans, there are currently 7 billion of us on Earth.	说到人类，现在地球上有70亿人
Yes, it is. What is worse is that it is very expensive.	是的，更糟糕的是，这还非常昂贵
So, we get phosphorus from mines.	那么，我们从矿藏里获得磷
What is the current state of the world's phosphorus reserves?	当今全球的磷储备是什么情况呢？
This graph gives you a rough idea of where we are today.	这张图可以给大家一个基本的概念
The black line represents predictions for phosphorus reserves.	黑线代表了对未来磷储备的预测走向
By the end of this century, it will all be gone.	这个世纪末，就会全部用光
The dotted line shows where we are today.	虚线代表着我们当下的情况
This mushroom exists in symbiosis with the roots.	这种菌类与植物的根是共生的
This slide illustrates the elements of a mycorrhiza.	这张图展示了一个菌根的组成部分
Normally, a root will find phosphorus all by itself.	通常，根部会靠自己寻找磷
Beyond one millimeter, the root is ineffective.	超过一毫米，吸收就无效了
Now, imagine this tiny, microscopic mushroom.	现在，想象一下这个微小的微观菌类
A very small amount of phosphorus will remain in the soil.	只有非常少量的磷会存在于土壤里
These are trials in a field of sorghum.	这些是在一片高粱地里的实验
This is to show you that this method works.	这就证明这个方法是可行的
This is an example of soy production in Canada.	这是在加拿大的一个大豆生产的例子
The problem is that people are not aware of it.	问题是人们并不知道这一点
In conclusion, I am a scientist and a dreamer.	总之，我是一个科学家和梦想家
So, the mutations reverted to symmetry.	所以，突变就回归到对称了。
Calculus is also a mathematics of curves.	微积分也是一种曲线数学。
We have a company called United Architects.	我们的公司叫做联合建筑师。
What we see during the day is our landscapes.	我们于白昼所见的是地表景观
These cows are used for beef. We're going to eat these cows.	这些牛将变成牛肉，进入人类腹中
And this is what we found, and it's startling.	这是我们的发现，令人震惊不已
This map shows the presence of agriculture on planet Earth.	这张地图显示农业分布于地表的情形
Well, that's not even the worst example in the world.	好，这并非世上最糟的情况
This probably is: the Aral Sea.	最糟的情况或许发生在咸海
Imagine that was Lake Superior.	不妨将它想象成苏必利尔湖
So what you find in the bottom of the Aral Sea ain't pretty.	因此你发现咸海底部不甚美观
We also use a lot of the atmosphere for agriculture.	我们也在农业上消耗许多大气
It's more than all other manufacturing, in fact.	事实上远大于所有制造业的排放量
In fact, we completely depend on it.	事实上我们的生存完全仰赖它
More importantly, changing diets.	更重要的是饮食结构的改变
Well, we could try to farm more land.	好，我们可以试着开垦更多土地
Now, this would require nutrients and water.	现在，这片区域需要养份和水源
We already know climate change is a big problem.	我们已知气候变迁是个大问题
Global pastures cover 30 million km².	全球牧地超过3000万平方公里
Irrigation is the biggest use of water on the planet.	灌溉消耗的水源为世界之首
That's enough to fill 7,305 Empire State Buildings every day.	足以每天装满7305栋帝国大厦
Today, many large rivers have reduced flows.	目前许多大型河川流量减少
Look at the Aral Sea, now turned to desert.	看看咸海，现在已变成沙漠
Fertilizers have more than doubled the phosphorus and nitrogen in the environment.	肥料使环境中的磷和氮倍增
There is nothing we do that transforms the world more than agriculture.	农业是改变世界的最大因素
And there's nothing we do that is more crucial to our survival.	我们的做法是影响人类生存的关键
There is no single solution.	这个困境没有单一解决方案
And this is a global business.	这是一种全球性的经营模式。
And this is a business incubator.	这算得上是一个商业培养基地了。
There's nothing underground about it.	根本没有什么地下的东西。
It's our prejudgment that it's underground.	所谓地下，是我们的偏见。
It's a business plan for a corporation.	这是他们公司的营销计划，
And where do the phones come from?	那么那些手机是从哪儿来的呢？
Now, are there downsides to that?	那么，这种系统有什么缺陷吗？
Versace without the vowels.	Versace中间少了个元音。
Cooperative development is a way forward.	合作式的发展将是今后前进的方向。
But I'm not just doing this to be cute.	但我这么说不是为了引人注目。
One is that, why are some disease organisms more harmful?	一个是，为什么一些病菌更有害，
Diarrheal disease organisms get transmitted in basically three ways.	痢疾病菌有三种基本的传播途径。
And you can test these ideas.	你可以测试一下这些观点。
And the answer is -- yep, they are.	答案是——是的，的确是的。
So this suggests we're on the right track.	因此这表明我们的思路是正确的。
And that is the species of organism that is responsible for causing cholera.	这种类型的细菌导致了霍乱。
There's a little ethical problem in this experiment.	这个实验会有些道德问题。
I was hoping to hear a few gasps at least.	我以为至少会听到一些人抽冷气。
And this ethical problem's a big problem.	但是这个道德问题是个大问题。
They evolved to produce less toxin.	它们进化的会产生更少毒素。
The goal is to turn this around.	我们的目标是使这种情况得到扭转。
And in Chile, you still had antibiotic sensitivity.	而在智利仍有抗生素敏感性。
So, it looks like Chile dodged two bullets.	因此，看起来智利避免了两个问题。
And that experiment was done in Northern Alabama.	这个实验室在北阿拉巴马进行的。
This shows you the positions of some of these dams.	这里显示了这些水库的位置。
And so it's a short-term solution.	所以这是个短期的解决方案。
So, this is the kind of thing I'm talking about.	因此，我所谈论的这类事情，
It is essentially the stuff of life meets machine.	实质上它是生物和机器的交汇点
And finally, there's a profound social impact.	最后，受部残疾还有很大的社会影响
Here you see a patent for an arm in 1912.	这是1912年的一个假臂的专利
It's not a lot different than the one you see on my patient.	这跟我的病人使用的没有多大区别
So it's intuitive, and it works pretty well.	完全是通过直觉产生的效果很不错
And your sensation's the exact opposite.	而你的触觉的工作方式正好相反
Those nerves can put out command signals.	那些神经可以输出命令信号
So we developed a different approach.	于是我们开发另外一条途径
So our approach is something we call targeted reinnervation.	我们把这个方法称为定向神经移植术
You think, "Bend elbow," a different section contracts.	你想"弯手肘"另一个部分就收缩
So this is the first man that we tried it on.	这是我们尝试的第一个对象
He also required a revision surgery on his chest.	他也要求在胸肌上实行修正手术
So here's Jesse in our first little test with him.	下面是对杰西的第一个测试
And we're fortunate today to have Amanda Kitts come and join us.	今天有幸请来阿曼达･奇兹
So Amanda, would you please tell us how you lost your arm?	阿曼达能说说是怎么失去手臂的吗？
Then we fit her with a prosthesis.	然后我们为她装了一个假肢
I was able to use my elbow and my hand simultaneously.	我可以同时运用手肘和手了
So I didn't have to do any of the cocontracting and all that.	这样我就不用集中精力去调动假肢
You can move each finger. You can move your thumb, your wrist.	能动手指，能动大拇指和手腕
Obviously, that's heavy for Amanda.	但是很显然这对阿曼达来说很重
So now it's able to train with just this little piece on the back.	现在背上这个小件就可以调试了
And that's where our goal is -- to have something clinically pragmatic to wear.	而那就我们的目标－临床实用的假肢
This is Jesse, and he's squeezing a foam toy.	这是杰西，他正在捏一个泡沫玩具
So for example, one is to get rid of my real estate problem and get better signals.	比如一个是解决面积问题优化信号
The first of these is informed consent.	首先是要提倡参加者的知情权。
There were two Jeeps on Santa Cruz.	当时的圣特鲁斯只有2辆吉普车。
So penguins are amazing athletes.	所以说，企鹅是最棒的运动员。
And, more importantly, they're well-dressed.	更重要的是，它们穿着优雅。
They're not breeding; they're not even around.	它们没有生育，它们甚至不再出现。
I studied marine iguanas at that point.	那个时候，我研究了海鬃蜥。
There were plenty of them.	那里有大量的麦哲伦企鹅。
They ended up swimming through ballast water that had oil in it.	却最终在有石油的压载水中游泳。
Why are there even these penguins oiled?	为什么还是有企鹅在石油中呢？
And you'll see soon that my graduate student ...	你一会儿就会看到我的研究生
and you see, Turbo's pretty intent on his flipper patting.	你也会看到，涡轮拍打蹼的意图
This is a radio frequency ID system.	这是一个无线电频率身份识别系统。
It walks over the pad, and you know who it is.	企鹅走过垫子，你就知道这是谁。
See, this one's coming back to its nest.	请看，这只正要回它的窝。
Here's a female that's in a hurry. She's got food.	哦，这位女士可是急匆匆的
Then I realize that they're playing king of the box.	这下我意识到他们在玩箱子。
Do we live in a borderless world?	我们生活在一个无国界的世界吗？
You can see that Africa has been fragmented.	你可以看到非洲被打碎了。
So let's apply this principle to Siberia.	同样的法则也适用于西伯利亚。
That's larger than the entire population of Russia.	这比整个俄罗斯的人口都要多。
That's what I call globalization Chinese style.	这就是我所称的中国式全球化。
So history doesn't necessarily repeat itself, but it does rhyme.	历史并不一定会重复，但却会重演。
It starts with the global hubs.	它首先从全球性的区域中心开始。
So China is becoming the anchor of the economy in the region.	因此中国正成为该地区经济的靠山。
Another pillar of this strategy is diplomacy.	这一策略的另外一个支柱是外交。
What lines on the map should we focus on?	我们应该关注地图上的哪些线呢？
Is it really a border on the map?	仅仅是地图上的一条疆界吗?
And therefore it has to have amicable relations with them.	因而它必须要和他们保持友好关系。
That is, of course, in Palestine.	显而易见，这就是巴勒斯坦。
He purposely did not want these countries to make sense.	他故意将这些国家分割得七零八落。
Why is it all he's talking about is oil?"	为什么他老在说石油呢？"
Just take Azerbaijan.	让我们举一下阿塞拜疆的例子。
Silk road connotes independence and mutual trust.	而丝绸之路意味着独立和互信。
Actually Greenland.	事实上格陵兰岛将是赢家。
What is the lesson from all of this?	这里得出的教训是什么呢？
It's constantly morphing and changing the world, like climate change.	它不断地改变世界,好似气候变化。
Now we fear changes on the map.	我们害怕地图上的这些改变。
And we didn't study any of these animals.	不过我们没有研究刚才那些动物
But at that time, most of the mutant worms are still alive.	但是同时大部分变异线虫还活着
And it isn't until twice as long that they're all dead.	直到又过了同样长的时间它们才死亡
And next you're going to see the long-lived mutant when it's young.	下面你将看到年轻的长寿变异体
So this animal is going to live twice as long.	它会活到正常线虫两倍的年龄
Now get out your handkerchiefs here.	现在准备拿出手绢来擦眼泪吧
You can see the little head moving down at the bottom there.	可以看见它的头在屏幕下面，在动
And you're in a restaurant, and you say, "Well how old are you?"	在饭桌上，你问她，"你多大了？"
So what is the daf-2 gene?	那么daf-2基因到底是什么？
So part of it is like a baseball glove.	受体的一部分就像棒球手套
And the other part is on the inside where it sends signals into the cell.	另外的部分在细胞内向细胞传递信号
So this is altogether really, really interesting.	总之这个结论就非常有趣了
So what kind of hormones are these?	这些激素又是什么样的激素呢？
These hormones are similar to hormones that we have in our bodies.	这些激素和我们身体里的激素差不多
And it's looking like that's the case.	而且看起来似乎的确是这样
So maybe it's working in people the same way.	所以或许在人类中也同样适用
The receptor isn't working as well.	这个受体也运转得不怎么好
And it's just sitting on one of them.	并且坐落在它们其中的一个上面
But what good is this for the worm?	但对线虫来说有什么好处吗
Then they promote the uptake of nutrients.	然后它们促使营养品的产生
And that's why we think the animals live longer.	这是我们认为动物活长久的原因
So maybe he's a little bit lazy, but he's there, he's taking care of the building.	或许他有点懒但他在那儿掌管着大楼
And then suddenly, he learns that there's going to be a hurricane.	突然，他了解到将有一场飓风
And they all come and they fortify the house.	他们都来了，加固了房屋。
And I'm really optimistic that this is going to work.	这会行得通，我对此非常乐观
And for at least one of them, there is a drug.	至少它们中的之一就是药物
Now I don't want you all to go out taking rapamycin.	现我不想让大家都去吃纳巴霉素
But I don't think that's a good idea.	但我也认为这不是个好主意
And they've been tagged, and they've been found to be 70 years old.	它们被标记，我们发现它们是70岁
They're not getting old in the dog's lifespan.	在狗的一生，人们没有变老
You ever see one of these before?	各位以前见过这类东西么？
As you can see, it's impossible to read.	正如各位所见，这简直没法读。
But that's not apathy; that's intentional exclusion.	但这不是冷漠；这是有意地排斥。
They all have heroes who were chosen.	它们中都有被选中的英雄。
There's a prophesy. You have to save the world."	这是预言。你必须去拯救世界。"
But most importantly, it's voluntary.	但最重要地是，它是自愿的。
Which leads us to the last one, which is our elections.	最后一点，就是我们的选举。
We can reform our electoral systems.	我们能改良我们的选举系统。
We can democratize our public spaces.	我们能使我们的公共空间民主化。
It's just that they don't bathe the brain like soup.	只是大脑不是简单混沌的混合液体，
What can we do? It's not so easy.	我们能做什么？显然不容易。
And this is one of the great things about fruit flies.	这就是果蝇的一个非常大的好处。
Now, how far does this analogy go?	现在，这个类比能站住脚吗？
Remarkably, the answer is yes.	可喜的是，答案是肯定的。
It's about man's best friend. It's about dogs.	是关于人类最好的朋友——狗狗们
It's to kill them when they're still in the water as larvae.	而是在它们还是水中的幼虫时候
In that pool of water, these larvae are concentrated.	在水塘里，幼虫集中在一起
Man's best friend in the fight against malaria.	狗也是人类抗击疟疾的最好朋友
And the answer I have right here in my pocket, if I get it.	答案是我口袋里就有我有这个
Now let me show you how this works.	让我告诉你们它有什么效果
Don't worry, I do this all the time in the lab.	别慌，我在实验室里一直这么做
Have a look. That doesn't work. Okay. Sorry about that.	看看吧。放错了……好。不好意思。
They don't kill us. We kill them.	它们杀不了我们。我们能杀死它们。
So cheese, dogs and a pill to kill mosquitos.	用奶酪、狗、和药片来灭蚊
The truth is, there are just simply not enough donor organs to go around.	现实是，捐献的器官根本不够用。
The transplant community has actively campaigned in organ donation.	移植团体活跃于器官捐献的活动中。
No doubt, I was informed, the consent had been obtained.	毫无疑问，手术是是获得了准许。
I witnessed the technical difficulty.	我亲眼目睹了此项技术的难度。
Fat-derived stem cells are adult stem cells.	脂肪源干细胞是一种成体干细胞。
But adult stem cells are not embryonic stem cells.	但是成体干细胞并不是胚胎干细胞。
Heart disease is the leading cause of death worldwide.	心脏病是世界上首要死亡原因。
Each one has his story.	每个人都有属于自己的故事。
He is the new musical director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra.	他是洛杉矶爱乐乐团新任音乐总监
He's the greatest young conductor in the world.	当今世上最优秀的年轻指挥家
We can speak only with music.	但音乐是我们共同的语言。
You know, because they can't hear the snoring anymore.	因为他们再也听不到对方的鼾声了
So what's going on when it doesn't?	所以维系婚姻的究竟是什么？
This is an actual study, and let me clarify.	这是一项真实的研究让我解释一下
So what else can you do to safeguard your marriage?	你还能做什么来守卫你的婚姻？
They actually call it the Oscar curse.	真的有种说法叫"奥斯卡诅咒"
It is the marriage kiss of death and something that should be avoided.	这是婚姻的死亡之吻应该极力避免
But here's a scary one: Divorce is contagious.	这还有一条可怕的离婚会传染
Now I have to say, I don't get this one at all.	这条一点儿也不适用于我自己
So now you may be wondering, why does anyone get married ever?	你们可能会问人们为什么要结婚？
We're healthier, physically and emotionally.	更健康无论是肉体上还是精神上
For instance, in my marriage, I'd say I'm doing okay.	譬如我自己我的婚姻还不错
On the other hand, I have the fake happy picture thing.	不过我有那些假装高兴的照片
But think for a moment what that means.	但是想一想这意味着什么。
Your brains are about 100 million times more complicated.	你们的大脑比这复杂一亿倍。
We don't understand the code used by the brain.	我们不了解大脑所用的密码。
But we'll certainly learn a lot.	但是我们一定会从中学到很多。
Sticking wires into the brain is obviously rather crude.	将电线接到脑部显然是相当残忍的。
But these pores here are special.	但是你看到的是一些特别的气孔。
They just stand around and groom excessively.	它们会站着并不停的替自己梳理。
They didn't get very far, obviously.	很明显，它们飞不了很远。
Here's some such CCTV footage.	这里有一些闭路电视的片段。
They don't know anything about you. Wake up.	他们根本不了解你，醒醒吧，
Take control of your health and get on with your life."	掌握自己的健康、好好的生活！」
Now, these people making these proclamations to me were not bad people.	宣告我病症的人都不是坏人
It's dependent on hospitals and clinics for our every care need.	所有的照护都依赖医院与诊所
It's dependent on specialists who just look at parts of us.	依赖只看我们部分身体的专科医师
We need to invent what I call a personal health system.	我们要发展「个人化健康系统」
This is the kidney transplant I was never supposed to have.	是我本来永远等不到的移植肾脏
This is not a wardrobe malfunction. I have to take my belt off here.	不是衣服有问题，我要脱掉皮带
This is a concept demo, so I want to make that clear.	先讲清楚，这只是概念的展示
So let me just make sure. Hey, Dr. Batiuk. Can you hear me okay?	先确认一下，贝医生，听得到吗？
And actually, can you see Libby?	还有，你看得到「利比」吗？
And I know you want to look and see if those spots are still there.	请帮我检查那些阴影还在不在？
Based on the other images we have, I'm really happy how it looks today.	与先前影像比较我很满意今天的状况
These are the foundations of what's going to make personal health possible.	是未来个人化健康照护的基础
Recovering from the surgery in the hospital, I get bedsores.	手术后的住院期间，我得了褥疮
And this happens to millions of people every year.	这每年发生在数百万人身上
The other people in this picture are me and my wife, Ashley.	照片上还有我，以及我太太艾希莉
And I think that's why I achieved longevity.	我想这就是我活得较久的原因
But she actually used these on smooth surfaces -- two of them -- to climb up, and pull herself up.	她在光滑表面也用这两个爬到过顶。
So what they did was they asked us an important question.	他们向我们提出了一个重要的问题。
Even though we put a passive bar there.	尽管这只是一个不能运动的塑料杆。
"Do animals use their tails when they climb up walls?"	"动物们在攀登中也用尾巴么？"
Well we know that tails store fat, for example.	我们知道尾巴被用来储存脂肪，
But of course, this is a passive tail.	但这是一个不能动的被动尾巴。
And you can also have active tails.	你也可以有一条能动的主动尾巴。
So we then went back and looked at the animal.	回到实验室，我们开始观察壁虎。
The engineers had a really good idea.	可见工程师们想了一个很好的主意。
And we did that experiment, that you see here.	可以看到，我们做了这样的试验。
Now that's real time. You can't see anything.	正常速度，什么也看不到。
So they do it with this active tail as they swing around.	在尾巴转圈的同事纠正姿势。
So we did. And here is what it does.	我们就这么做了。看壁虎如何应对。
It does an equilibrium glide. Highly controlled.	它在水平滑翔。控制得非常好。
It oscillates its tail up and down like a dolphin.	像海豚一样上下摆动尾巴。
Well we went to the forests of Singapore and Southeast Asia.	我们前往东南亚新加坡的森林中。
And the next video you see is the first time we've showed this.	下一个短片是我们第一次展示。
Now watch up there and you can see the landing. Did you see it hit?	现在注意看着陆，看到没有？
So I will spend a little time at the end.	所以最后我会花一点时间来讲它。
It's not clear what the target should be.	我们还不清楚我们的目标是什么。
Now, why is this so complicated?	那么，为什么这个事情如此复杂？
There's air-sea interactions.	这里有大气--海洋交互作用。
Volcanoes eject aerosols into the atmosphere.	火山将气溶胶喷射进大气层。
I'll show you a few examples of this now.	下面我将给大家展示一些案例。
This was -- this is south of the Antarctic Circle.	这曾是——这是南极圈的南面。
Most of the time it looked like this.	大多数时间它都像这个样子。
This is the part of Antarctica that we worry about.	这就是我们所担心的那部分南极洲。
When that ice melts, sea level rises by six meters.	当这块冰融化，海平面会上升6米。
It took about 10 years to put this project together.	营建这个工程花了大约10年左右。
It can only get there if it's carried out by ice.	这些只能被冰块带到那里。
So we know there's an ice shelf overhead.	所以我们知道它上面有冰层。
And that alternates with a sediment that looks like this.	然后沉积物就像这样交替出现。
And it could be larger than that.	而且上升幅度有可能更大。
So these events in our recent past really are unique.	因此近年来这些事件真是非常特别。
Here's how we sample the corals.	这就是我们如何在珊瑚礁取样的。
The core comes up as these cylindrical tubes of limestone.	珊瑚的内核就像这些石灰石圆柱管。
You can see some of the coral cores there on the right.	你们可以在右边看到一些珊瑚内核。
Their ratio tells us the water temperature.	它们的比例能告诉我们水温。
We do similar things with ice cores.	我们对冰核也采取这样的做法。
We work with tree rings.	我们对树木年轮也采取这样的做法。
This is as messy as it gets.	就像它本身一样毫无头绪。
Some of them show greater variability.	某些显示了更显著的变化。
It was cooling down until about 1900 or so.	它从1900年左右就开始冷却了。
And as it does so, it makes the ocean more acidic.	结果，这就让海洋的酸度更强。
So, you cannot argue with that.	所以你不必就此展开争论。
The main framework material of coral reefs is calcium carbonate.	珊瑚礁的主要构筑材料也是碳酸钙。
That material is more soluble in acidic fluid.	这种材料在酸性液体中更容易溶解。
So let's get to what I would like, which is world peace.	我要告诉大家我希望世界和平。
So we're not forcing people to travel.	所以我们不是要强迫别人去旅行
So I'm the living product of two cultures coming together.	所以我是两种不同文化的混合产物
I got drawn into this community and I began to take pictures there.	我被这里所吸引，我开始拍摄这里
I just wanted to be in the center.	我只想去事件发生地去亲临体验
I had no plan. I had no funding.	我没有计划，没有资金支持
I didn't even have a camera at the time.	那时我甚至没有一台摄影机
Sameer Khader: Business as usual.	萨摩尔克哈德；跟平常一样
Maybe I will never be able to do it.	或许我永远也没有机会去实现它
He kind of redefined us as an American population.	他从某种意义上重新定义了美国人
Al Jazeera offered him a job.	半岛电视台给了他一份工作
How do we understand what the other person is thinking?"	我们怎么理解别人的想法？
In this life, we're dead anyway.	这种生活，我们总会死的。
And my 12-year-old daughter Christine was killed in the shooting.	我的女儿克里斯汀被他们射杀了。
I deal with children all the time.	我一直在处理孩子的事情。
I know where you guys are coming from.	我知道你们这些小子来自哪里
It's about those unions who put down their tools and demanded freedom.	是他们结成联盟进行罢工并要求自由
So what we'd like to call this day of film is Pangea Cinema Day.	所以我们命名这一天为盘古电影日
And let me show you what it is that he found.	让我们来看看他究竟发现了什么。
And that communicates the force of gravity.	而这导致了"重力"的产生。
Even the Earth warps space around it.	地球同样会扭曲在它四周的空间。
And that is what got Kaluza thinking.	而这也促使了"卡鲁扎"去思考。
Amazing -- it just popped out.	太奇妙了--就这样被发现了。
This is a man who would risk his life on theory.	他就是这种将生命系于理论的人。
It's very hard to see it, though, from far away.	虽然从远处来看是非常难辩认的。
Let me show you what that would look like.	让我们来看看它可能的形状。
So, let me just tell you how that goes.	下面让我来解释其中的道理
We also all know that atoms are not the end of the story.	我们也知道原子并不是最小的单位
That is where conventional ideas stop.	以上是以被广泛接受的观点
Here is the new idea of string theory.	现在我要讲的是弦理论提出的新观点
They don't produce different musical notes.	他们不能产生各种音乐符号
The different frequencies produce the different particles.	不同的频率产生不同的粒子
Now, does string theory offer an answer?	那么，弦理论可以给出答案吗
So can we explain those 20 numbers?	那么我们可以解释这20个数字吗？
This is what string theory says about the extra dimensions.	这才是弦理论描述的额外维度
So let me bring some strings into the story.	现在让我来阐述弦理论的原理
Every so often those particles will be aimed at each other, so there's a head-on collision.	大量粒子会迎面飞行并且发生碰撞。
You take these particles. You slam them together.	你握住这些粒子，把它们攥在一起
Amazing possibility.	如果真的发生，那将多么令人激动
So, we have two panels here, of colored dots.	这里有两个板子上面有些彩色圆点
And instead of telling you, I'll just show you.	与其讲给你们听不如演示给你们看
And these are two projections from the world.	这里有两个来自外界的投影
They are the same, as far as your eye is concerned.	正如你肉眼所见，它们一模一样
And yet they come from completely different sources.	但是它们却来自于完全相异的像源。
And what's true for sensory information is true for information generally.	感官信息就如同一般的信息，
But you put one there. Why?	但是你把它放在了那里。为什么呢？
One is simply the flipping of the other. Okay?	一个是另外一个的翻转，好吗？
That's what it's learning. Okay?	这就是它正在学习的。是吧？
So, what does this mean for context?	那么，这对背景意味着什么呢？
What's significant is not simply the light and dark surrounds that matter.	重要的不是简单的明暗环境
And see what happens to your perception.	然后看看你的感知发生了什么变化
This is one I made a few years ago.	这个是我多年前做的一张图
The four blue tiles on the left are gray.	这四个在左边的蓝色瓷砖是灰色的
Don't believe me? Let's watch it again.	你不相信我？让我们再来看一看
So I can ask you, which direction is it rotating?	所以我问你，它在向哪个方向旋转？
Are we the only ones that see illusions?	我们是唯一看到错觉的吗？
And we do this in what we call the Bee Matrix.	我们所做的这个叫做蜜蜂矩阵
And you'll see one of the bees come out here.	你将看到其中有一只蜜蜂从这里出来
You see how she has a little number on her?	你看到它是如何得到一个编号的啊？
It looks like they're going to green flowers.	看起来它们要去绿色的花儿
But those are blue flowers under green light.	却是在绿色灯光之下的蓝色花儿
That line is broken up into 32 squares.	那条线被分成了三十二个正方形
In each square we calculate the average color.	我们计算每个正方形的平均颜色
He finds it. Amazing. Right?	他找到了。很神奇。对吧？
The question is, "Is that an illusion?"	问题来了，"那是个错觉吗？"
Okay? Friends, family and financiers.	懂了吗？朋友，家人或投资者。
It's a piece of public mischief.	我举的例子是一场公共的闹剧。
Are we getting a, yeah?— That's what he told us.	可以了吗？—他是这么说的。
I'm going to have my own lexicon speaking here today.	今天在这里我用自己的词汇来讲，
They are the Piarco Airport accused.	他们叫做皮亚尔科机场被告。
Our highest institution in our country was perverted.	我们国家的最高机关堕落了。
Do you get how serious this problem is?	你们能看出来问题有多严重吗？
That's the word lawyers use. It was repealed.	律师的说法是这样。被废除了。
So that is the kind of outrage of the thing.	这是整个事件中最难容忍的部分。
And what it said on that sign hit me right in the center.	牌子上的话深深的打动了我。
Is our government that generous? And maybe they are.	我们的政府有那么慷慨吗？或许有。
Let's look at it. Let's look into it.	我们来看看。我们仔细看看。
Okay? We want to try to recalculate.	可以吗？我们要重新审视这些。
So I plunged into this struggle, and I asked four questions.	但我极力争取，问了四个问题。
If it is I have to go to court personally, I will do that.	即使需要法庭相见也在所不辞。
Discard the first myth; it is a crime.	解除第一个迷思。它的确是犯罪。
Discard the second myth; it is a big thing.	解除第二个迷思。这是一件大事。
And you can be secure even if you don't feel it.	或者你不感到安全的时候却很安全
That might be true, but it's not terribly relevant.	那个可能是真的，但没什么关系。
And I think that's a fundamentally interesting question.	我认为那是个关键又有趣的问题
Now most of the time, that works.	很多时候，这样没什么问题
And you can see certain biases that come up again and again.	你可以观察到有些偏见反复出现
This is for children.	以上都是针对孩子们来说的
This works until you invent newspapers.	这是可行的直到报纸被发明
We're also a species of storytellers.	我们同时也是一种会讲故事的物种
And there's some basic innumeracy going on.	在故事里，总有些对科学的无知存在
I mean, the joke "One, Two, Three, Many" is kind of right.	比如"一、二、三、很多"这个笑话
Or the other way, and that's a false sense of insecurity.	要么相反出现错误的不安全感
Maybe it's what the CIA's supposed to do for us.	可能这就是CIA应该为我们做的
Enough real world examples helps.	很多现实生活中的例子可以帮助理解
There's an inherent problem with low probability events.	在小概率事件里存在一个固有的问题
I want to add a third element. I want to add model.	我想加入第三个元素，一个模型
It doesn't change; it's real.	它是不会变的，它是真实的
So feeling is based on our intuition.	所以感觉是建立在直觉上的
There's no feeling about germs.	比如说，没有什么感觉是关于细菌的
You need a model to understand them.	你需要一个模型去了解它们
So this model is an intelligent representation of reality.	所以这个模型是在理智层面上的现实
It's, of course, limited by science, by technology.	它当然被科学和技术所限制着
It's limited by our cognitive biases.	它同时也被我们的认知偏见所限制
But it has the ability to override our feelings.	但模型有能力凌驾于我们的感觉
We get them from religion, from culture, teachers, elders.	从宗教、文化老师、长辈那里得到
He had some very complex models of how to survive.	他有一些如何生存的复杂模型
Models can come from the media, from our elected officials.	模型来自媒体来自我们选出的政府
Think of cancer, of bird flu, swine flu, SARS.	想想癌症、禽流感、猪流感、非典
We change light bulbs without even thinking about it.	我们不用怎么想就可以换灯泡
It hasn't changed as we were growing up.	它没有随着我们的成长而变化
Models eventually fade into the background.	模型最终会消失在无意识里
There was no new data, but there was less fear.	没有新的数据，但恐惧减少了
I have a very relativistic view of security.	我认为安全其实还是相对的
When I was a kid, no one wore a seat belt.	当我还小的时候，没人系安全带
All examples of models changing.	这几个例子里的模型都变了
So it's a very hard model to accept.	所以那是个非常难以让人接受的模型
Strong feelings can create a model.	强烈的感觉可以产生一个模型
You'll see these called flashbulb events by psychiatrists.	那些经历在心理学里叫做闪光灯事件
And I want to close with two quick stories to illustrate this.	结束前我想以两个小故事来说明这点
Someone else bought it and died.	七个人买回去吃了然后中毒而死
There were a couple of copycat attacks.	当时还有些模仿此投毒的行为
Those tamper-proof caps, that came from this.	那些防盗瓶盖就是这么来的
It's not just reality; it's feeling and reality.	它不只是现实，它是感觉和现实
What's important is that they be about the same.	重要的是它们几乎是一样的
All these things, they come back to plants.	所有的这些东西，可以追溯到植物。
And it's the largest seed bank in the world.	并且是世界上最大的种子库。
This is a nuclear-proof facility.	这是座可以防核爆的建筑物。
God forbid that it should have to withstand that.	但愿不会发生，但必须得承受得住。
And they go back when their seeds have arrived.	然后等产生种子的时候再回来。
The seeds -- some of if is very untechnical.	有些种子不需要什么技术。
2,800 dollars per species is the average.	平均每个物种需要2800美元。
I think that's cheap, at the price.	我认为在价格方面还是比较便宜的。
two out of three ate the marshmallow.	三分之二的小孩把棉花糖吃了。
Self-discipline: the most important factor for success.	自律，成功最重要的因素。
They had good relationships with the teachers, students.	他们和老师同学关系都很好。
And let me show you what happened.	现在我给你们看看当时的情况。
So what happened in Colombia?	那么在哥伦比亚发生了什么呢？
That person ate the marshmallow.	这个推销员当初一定吃了棉花糖。
Then you sell a lot more.	那样就可以卖更多的东西。
So this has applications in all walks of life.	所以这能应用在生活的各个方面。
I end with -- the Koreans did this.	我现在收尾--讲讲韩国人的做法。
They are teaching these kids exactly this principle.	韩国人教给孩子们的就是这个道理。
And it was originally a freight line that ran down 10th Ave.	它原本是沿着第十大街的货运线。
Mayor Giuliani wanted to tear it down.	朱利亚尼市长想要拆除它。
We thought it would cost 100 million dollars to build.	我们原想它会花费1亿美元去建成。
It turns out we were wrong on that.	但结果是我们就这方面是错误的。
We opened the fist section in 2009.	在2009年我们开放了第一部分。
It's been successful beyond our dreams.	它远超乎我们的梦想而成功了。
It's this amphitheater right over 10th Ave.	这是在第十大街的圆形剧场。
And the first section ends at 20th St. right now.	目前第一部分截止于第二十大街。
And they're going to break ground in May.	他们会在今年五月破土动工。
And we've already started construction on section two.	我们已经开工建设第二部分。
We loosely call them "groups."	我们广泛地称他们为"团体"，
They need political solutions.	它们需要政治方案的介入。
And sometimes military intervention is necessary.	并有时军事干预是必要的。
We just have to persevere."	"我们只不过需要坚持一下。"
Everybody seems to agree with that.	每个人都好像同意这个观点。
We didn't grasp what was going on.	我们之前没有意识到它的重要性。
It's hard, but it is necessary.	这很艰难，但却非常必要。
The Arab Spring is heading into fall and is moving into winter.	阿拉伯之春进入秋季并走向寒冬。
It will last for a long, long time.	这将持续很长很长一段时间。
If we talk to them, we may legitimize them."	如果对话，我们可能使其合法化。"
But talking can be done in different ways.	但是对话可以采取不同的形式。
And I think the international community would have said, "Fair enough.	我想国际社会也会说"很公平，
Now South African friends will know that was very painful.	南非朋友们应该知道这有多么艰难
So what can we learn from all of this?	那么，我们可以从中学到什么？
We have to connect with these profound changes.	我们必须接触这些深刻的变化。
And I wouldn't say that is the wrong thing in all circumstances.	我不会一概地否定这些策略。
And they brought their knowledge.	而且他们利用了自己的知识。
And there was an interaction between diplomacy and the power coming bottom-up.	在外交和底层力量之间有一个互动。
This is perhaps a first element of a change.	这也许是变革发生的第一要素。
And unfortunately, I can be a little too honest.	但不幸的是，我有点过于诚实了，
And I could sense that she thought I was speaking synecdochically.	我能够感觉到她以为我在开玩笑。
So, some people are afraid of what I do.	有些人对我所做的事感到害怕。
Where did they get that inspiration?	他们是从哪里得到的灵感？
There's many mysteries, these statues.	关于这些雕像有很多秘密。
How long have they been standing in what positions?	它们在什么位置站立了多久？
So, I'll talk about it at a future TED.	所以我将来会在TED谈一下这个。
Another thing I do is I invent stuff.	我还做一件事，就是搞发明。
Now, it's kind of nuts to work on a new nuclear reactor.	研究新的核反应堆听上去很疯狂。
So, this device here is an invisibility cloak.	这个装置是一个隐形斗篷。
But some day, some day, maybe it's going to work.	但是终有一天，那可能会实现。
And these happen to be my eyes, by the way.	顺便提一下，那是我的眼睛。
It sounds really dumb, but that's what it is.	这听起来很愚蠢，但事实就是如此。
Paleontologists pray for erosion.	古生物学家祈祷地址腐蚀。
You've got this bentonite clay, which is -- sort of swells up and expands.	这是一块膨润土，有点鼓起来了。
This is what Tyrannosaurus rex looks like in the ground.	霸王龙埋在地下时就是这样子。
Study of the ancient climate is very important.	对于古代气候的研究十分重要。
Now, I'm also really big on photography.	另外，我还非常热衷于摄影。
The first thing you learn is the overwhelming importance of hands.	首先能了解到的是双手的重要性。
It's like the parts list of your body.	基因组学好比你身体中的零件列表，
And there probably are special cases of that.	恐怕有时确实是这种情况。
So why all the big deal about genetics?	那为什么遗传学研究这么重要呢？
It is very useful in certain circumstances.	遗传信息在某些情况下特别有用。
So this happens in physics all the time.	这样的逻辑在物理学中常见。
But it rarely happens in biology.	但是这个逻辑在生物学中很少见。
But sometimes you can learn much more useful things about that.	但有时你能得到很多有用的信息。
It requires hundreds of steps, and it takes a long, long time.	需要上百个步骤，需要很长的时间。
And it matters how much of the protein it is.	蛋白质的含量也很有关系。
So we started playing around with this.	于是我们就开始研发这个技术。
So we're actually measuring each isotope as a different one.	所以我们其实测量得到每个同位素。
And so that gives you an idea of how exquisitely sensitive this is.	这告诉我们这个技术有多灵敏。
We know that that works.	我们知道青霉素能治好你。
So how do we diagnose that conversation?	我们怎样解读这样的错误对话呢？
I think cancer should not be a noun.	我看癌症，不是一个事物。
"Well, it's in the kitchen." "Oh, you must have kitchen water."	"厨房里。""那就是厨房水了。"
That's kind of the level at which it is.	这就是我们现在对癌症的认识。
Of course, we'll do surgery sometimes and so on.	当然了，有时手术是不可避免的。
What we're really here to talk about is the "how."	我们在此真正讨论的是怎么做
Now, I want to tell you a quick story.	现在，我想跟大家分享一个小故事
We'll go back a little more than a year.	让我们把时间倒回一年多以前
And there were even some polls that were saying she was going to go all the way.	甚至一些民调表示她将会一路走下去
And it's within these tribes that all of our work gets done.	我们的研究成果正是基于这些部落
All of you are members of tribes.	你们所有人都是部落的一员
They always have. They always will.	他们总是这么做，他们总是愿意做
This is a bit of a difficult image to put up on the screen.	把这张图放上屏幕可能有点困难
But it's one that I think we need to learn from.	但是我认为我们应该从中有所学习
Stage One produces people who do horrible things.	阶段一产生做出可怕事情的人
It's not enough to simply write people off.	简简单单地将他们忽略是远远不够的
Now, am I saying that there are dumb people working here?	我有说是一帮蠢人在这工作吗？
But I'm saying the culture makes people dumb.	但是，我要说是文化让人变笨了
The amount of world-changing behavior that would happen?	一些改变世界的行为可能发生吗？
And the elevator door opened, and they all walked out.	然后电梯门开了，他们都走了出去
That is a meeting of a Stage Three tribe.	这就是一个阶段三下的会谈
Here is the greatest challenge we face in innovation.	这里我们将遇到革新中的最大的挑战
It is moving from Stage Three to Stage Four.	这就是从阶段三过渡到阶段四
It was not Christmas time. There was a Christmas tree.	这不是在圣诞期间，那有一棵圣诞树
Employees volunteer time in the advice booth.	雇员志愿在他们的工作台上花费时间
And you'll notice they are a little bit weird.	你会发现他们确实有点古怪
Stage Four tribes can do remarkable things.	阶段四的部落能过做出非凡的事情
But you'll notice we're not at the top of the mountain yet.	但你也注意到了我们还没有到达顶峰
In fact, South Africa has not gone down that road.	事实上，南非并没有走这条道路
That's like, you know, "Life sucks." Who wants to talk that way?	那就像，生活糟透了。谁愿意那么说
Saying, "We're great" -- that sounds pretty good.	说，我们很伟大，这听上去好多了
But I should really talk Stage Five, right? "Life is great."	但我将好好谈论阶段五，生活很伟大
We're great! Who is not great? England!"	我们很伟大！谁又不伟大了？英格兰
Just one little bit of happiness and joy after another.	生命中总是充满了不断的幸福和快乐
And our values are beginning to unite us."	我们的价值观开始将我们联合到一起
But you don't leave them where you found them. Okay?	但别离开他们所在的阶段，好吗？
And he grew up essentially in Stage One.	基本上，他在阶段一中长大
So I'm going to sit here in my chair and not do anything."	所以我要坐在这并且什么也不做
You know they do polls, right?	你知道的，他们是做调查的，对吗？
Incidentally, they did pull it off.	顺便说一句，他们没有半途而废。
And they released the first-ever world poll.	他们发起了第一个全球调查
First of all: we all form tribes, all of us.	第一，我们所有人组成部落，所有人
And you don't leave them where they are. You nudge them forward.	你不脱离他们。你推动他们向前
You remember to talk all five culture stages.	你记得与所有五个文化阶段对话
I'm going to read a few strips.	我马上会朗读的一些连环漫画。
But at dusk everything changes.	但当黄昏降临一切都变了。
It has a deep melancholy ring.	它蕴含着深深地抑郁声调。
Or the distant peel of thunder?	还是爆破远方的一声惊雷？
The most perfect examples occupy corner lots.	最突出的例子就是拐角处的小楼盘
You were late for school again this morning.	今天早上你上学又迟到了。
The illusion of speech follows incidentally.	然后自然而然的带出台词。
What have you got to say for yourself, Jimmy?	你为自己有什么想要说的吗，吉米？
The bathrooms and kitchens will, of course, have no windows.	洗手间和厨房当然是没有窗户的。
The profound convolutions on the surface of a dried cherry.	那些樱桃干表面深深的卷曲；
Pears dried in the form of genital organs.	梨子干有着生殖器一样的形状。
Apricot halves like the ears of cherubim.	杏瓣儿就像智天使的耳朵。
That's the end. Thank you.	最后一个故事讲完了。谢谢大家。
And the going is pretty rough right now.	而且现在事情已经很复杂。
Compassion is a worthy successor.	而同情是一个合格的选择。
Compassion cultivates and practices curiosity.	同情产生好奇并培养好奇。
And compassion can also have those qualities.	同情也同样拥有这些品质。
Shyness is about fear of social judgment.	害羞是对于社会评论的恐惧
And kids are working in countless group assignments.	孩子们要完成无数个小组任务
And do you really want to leave it up to chance?	可你们真的想把这机会扔掉吗？
So that's the world we're living in today.	所以这就是我们今天生活的世界
But these are not exactly my books.	但这些实际上都不是我的书
But here's the thing about my grandfather.	但是有这么一件关于我祖父的事情
And that actually helped a lot.	而且它的确帮了我很大的忙
I mean, we are.	我的意思是，我们在保持平衡
So I grew up in a family of women.	所以我成长在一个女性的家庭里。
And I always said that they were really tough on me.	我通常说，他们对我很苛刻。
And to me, that is very, very critical.	对我来说，这非常、非常的重要。
We're talking about something very similar here.	我们在这里讨论一点很相似的问题。
I really believe that you have to have a passion for it.	我真的认为你们应该对此有热情。
I graduated. I decided to get married.	我毕业了。我决定结婚了。
And I said, that I got to write it.	我说，是我要写它的决心。
This thing's selling still about a million copies a month.	这本书现在还每个月销售1百万本。
I really think that's there's this inner desire.	我真的认为内心深处有这个渴望。
I don't think there are accidental kids.	但是我认为没有偶然产生的小孩。
Why do I feel like a fake?	为什么我感觉像一个假货？
And that was: what is the purpose of this?	那就是，这个东西的目的是什么？
Because it brought in enormous amounts of money.	因为它带来了巨额的金钱。
When I started Saddleback Church, I was 25 years old.	我开办马鞍峰教会的时候25岁，
It's not going to be mine after I die.	在我死了之后也不会是我的。
Not any more than any other species."	不觉得比其他物种要多些责任。"
This is why I believe what I believe."	这就是为什么我相信我所相信的。"
I didn't go out and buy a bigger house.	我没有去买一个更大的房子，
It makes a difference what you believe.	那能改变你所相信的东西。
It's all about more, having more.	讲的全部是"更多"，拥有更多。
But that's not the good life.	但是那其实不是好的人生。
Because I start getting all kinds of invitations.	因为我开始收到各种各样的邀请。
And being a pastor, I started reading the Bible.	因为是一个牧师，我开始阅读圣经。
I want you to spread the fame of my name through every land.	我想你把我的美名传遍每一片土地，
Until you read the whole psalm, the whole chapter.	直到你看完整个诗篇，整个章节。
They're not on my radar.	他们不在我的生活工作范围内。
They're just not in my pathway.	他们就不在我的生活里面。
But He doesn't do miracles just to show off.	但是他不会显示神迹纯粹为了炫耀。
First, it represented his identity.	首先，它代表了他的身份。
Your assets are tied up in your flocks.	你的财产都在你的羊群上。
What do you do with a shepherd's staff?	你拿着一根牧羊人的棍子能干什么？
And that gives with you enormous influence.	而这个身份给你巨大的影响力。
What are you doing with what you've been given?	你在怎么对待这些给你的东西？
These things shape you.	这些东西塑造了你的状态。
And I would look at them -- this is not an accident.	看着他们我就会想，这绝不是偶然。
Before, they were closed off.	在此之前，他们是被封闭的。
Now what are some of the results?	现在已得到的一些结果是什么？
And think of the laptop as a vaccine.	将手提电脑看作一种疫苗。
You vaccinate all the children in an area.	而是为整个群体接种疫苗。
We get it in the abstract.	我们都知道这个模糊的概念。
We all know everybody in this room makes mistakes.	我们都知道这里的每个人都曾经犯错
One reason, actually, has to do with a feeling of being wrong.	事实上这和犯错的感觉有关
But just being wrong doesn't feel like anything.	但犯错本身事实上毫无感觉
But the thing is, the coyote runs off the cliff right after him.	但土狼也会跟着牠一起跳崖
It does feel like something to be wrong; it feels like being right.	犯错的感觉就和正确的感觉一样
But there's a second reason that we get stuck inside this feeling as well -- and this one is cultural.	但还有第二个理由文化性的理由
It's the dumb kid, the troublemaker, the one who never does his homework.	笨蛋，捣蛋鬼从不做功课的坏学生
We learn these really bad lessons really well.	我们很早就得到这些错误讯息
Think for a moment about what it means to feel right.	"感觉对"究竟是什么意思
And yeah, it is also why we get things wrong.	这也是我们搞错事情的原因
And my first thought was, "I've lost it.	我的第一个念头是"我完了
And I mentioned this to him, and he was like, "No actually, that's true.	我向他提到这件事他回答我"事实上
We love things like plot twists and red herrings and surprise endings.	我们喜欢故事转折令人惊讶的结局
When it comes to our stories, we love being wrong.	我们喜欢在故事里看到犯错
Didn't really work out that way, did it?	真是出人意料之外啊，不是吗
Where's my jet pack, Chris?	我的逃生火箭在哪，Chris?
Let me start by telling you a little story.	先让我给你们讲一个小故事吧。
We had nothing that actually could tell us whether we were actually getting it right.	我们不知道我们怎样做才是对的。
So it suggests that the momentum is shifting.	这预示着动机发生了转变。
GDP counts everything from air pollution to the destruction of our redwoods.	GDP可以计算空气污染红木的污染
We're asking 10 simple questions -- it is simplicity.	我们只是问了10个非常简单的问题
But all of those questions are tangible.	但是所有的这些问题都是可以触摸的
They're about demographics.	他们都是关于人口统计学特征的
We're not asking meaningful metrics.	我们并不被问及有意义的度量
We're not asking important questions.	我们并不被问及重要的问题
We've been fooled by our tool.	我们被我们的工具所愚弄。
They've created a habitat of happiness for Dave.	他们创造了一个快乐的栖息地给大卫
What can you start counting today?	什么是你从今天开始就计算的呢？
Even seasickness is a consequence of uncertainty.	甚至晕船也是不确定的结果。
That's actually what an experiment is.	而实验其实就是这样的东西。
The first step was to ask a question.	第一步，是提出一个问题。
Now, science and asking questions is about courage.	科学和提问，是关于勇气的事。
So we go, of course, to the pub. All right?	所以我们去了，当然啦，去了夜店。
The one on the left is mine, okay?	左边的那个杯子是我喝的，看到了？
The introduction says, what's the question and why?	引言就是，问题是什么以及为什么？
And the discussion is, who cares? Right?	讨论就是，谁关心它？对吗？
That's a science paper, basically.	基本上，这就是一份科学报告。
So here's the title page. We have a number of authors there.	这是封面。我们有好多位作者。
What you guys have done is real, true and amazing.	你们所做的，实在，真实而又惊人。
Who else can have these qualities more than children?	谁能比儿童拥有更多这些品质呢？
Please congratulate your children's team from my side."	请代我恭喜你们的孩子们。"
Can I do it on you?	我能在您身上做这个实验吗？
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, come on. Yeah yeah. Okay.	哦对，就是你，来吧。很好。
Now, we're going to do a little demonstration, right?	我们现在做一些简单的说明，好吗？
This is terrible, this oil -- it's in the water.	这太可怕了，石油污染了水域。
Poor people also suffer at the point of use.	在使用时也同样受到危害。
You often have to buy the cheapest products.	你常常得买最便宜的产品。
The cheapest products are often the most dangerous.	而最便宜的产品往往是最危险的。
I'm going to put it in the blue bin."	我要把它放到蓝色回收箱。"
And we use that as a moral tickle.	我们把它当作一个道德戏法。
Not you, but I feel this way.	可能你不这样想，但我是这样觉得。
We're so happy to see you, little bottle."	我们很高兴看到你，小塑料瓶。"
The little bottle says, "I just don't know."	小塑料瓶说，"我不知道啊。"
I hope someone does something to help them."	我希望有人做点事来帮助他们。"
We don't have disposable resources.	我们不再使用一次性资源。
But biomimicry means respecting the wisdom of all species.	但生物仿生指尊重所有物种的智慧。
There's no vacuums. There's no big furnaces.	不用真空吸尘器，不用炉子，
There's no poison. There's no pollution.	不用释放有毒物质，没有污染。
We would have a different economy.	我们会有一个不一样的经济。
We have a moral challenge in this moment.	在这一刻，我们面临着道德挑战。
You've got to shrink it down and be about one issue.	你得二选一，关注一件事。
We can hug both.	我们可以兼而有之地做选择。
Volantor-like helicopter, perhaps.	或者说光一般灵活飞行的直升机。
On the ground, it's powered electrically.	当在陆地上是，它是电力驱动的。
As that disappeared we came in with highways.	在后来高速公路代替了铁路。
So, I'm not going to quote myself on this.	所以，我的观点不具有代表性。
How would a trip in a Skycar work?	那么，用飞天车怎样出行？
But it's still fairly quiet.	其实飞天车也没有太大的噪音。
Or it's going to have no use to you as a person who might use such a system.	或者说飞天车将是非常容易操作的。
In this case here, we're flying it remotely, as we always did at the beginning.	这一次，我们仍然是遥控飞行
And we had very small power plants in it at this time.	那时我们的动力装置功率很小。
At least for the hover, and the low-speed flight.	至少是对直升机和低速飞行的飞机。
Wonderful engine.	旋转引擎是非常棒的引擎。
We have four computers. We have two parachutes.	同时安装了4台电脑，2个降落伞。
Developing the Skycar has been a real challenge.	飞天车的研究是一个非常大的挑战。
Twenty-three percent said, "Yes, as soon as possible."	23%的人回答"是，越快越好"
The other thing is, we love batteries.	另外一点是，我们喜欢电池
Wires suck, they really do.	电缆真令人恶心，确实如此
The other thing is, batteries suck too.	另一件事是，电池也非常令人恶心
But inside a standard transformer are two coils of wire.	在标准变压器中有两卷线圈
Number one question I get asked.	我所被问到的第一个问题是
I mean, people are worried about cellphones being safe.	人们会担心手机的安全性问题
There aren't electric fields here. It's a magnetic field.	这里并没有电场，只是磁场。
We live in a magnetic field.	我们每天都生活在磁场环境中
And it's virtually impossible in nature to make that happen.	而这在自然界中几乎没可能让其发生
But who is going to want to plug them in?	但是有谁愿意很麻烦的去充电呢？
And it actually causes your car to charge safely and efficiently.	它让你的汽车能够安全、高效地充电
Credit cards, robot vacuum cleaners.	信用卡，真空清洁器都可以使用
And what I'm going to do is to show you pretty much what's here.	我将会此向你展示相当精彩的内容
We put one on the back of the television set.	我们将它放在电视机的背后
But then what's going to happen is, it will create a field.	但这里将会发生的是，磁场出现了
It will cause one to get created on the other side.	它制造了一个磁场在另一面
How many people want to hang them on the wall?	有多少人想将其挂在墙上？
Imagine if you can get rid of it.	想象一下如果你能够摆脱它
The other thing I wanted to talk about was safety.	另一件我想谈的事是安全性问题
So, there is nothing going on. I'm okay.	目前在这里啥也没有发生，我很好
So, I wanted to show you something.	所以我将会向你们展示一些东西
We're an equal opportunity designer of this sort of thing.	在这样的事上我们有着平等的机会
You know, it's the latest thing that's come out.	你知道的，刚出来的最新产品
It runs the Android operating system.	它运行着Android操作系统
I think I heard somebody talk about that before.	我想以前有人谈到过这玩意
you're looking at a cellphone powered completely wirelessly.	你将会看到手机被无线充电
And I know some of you are Apple aficionados.	我想，你们中的一部分是苹果迷
So what happens to all these toxins when we die?	那么我们死后这些毒素怎么办呢
All right, so for some of you, this may be really, really out there.	对于大家有些人这可能非常骇人听闻
We want to eat, not be eaten by, our food.	我们吃食物而不是被食物吃掉
And now about these ninja pajamas.	现在我们看看这些忍者睡衣
And the saying goes, we came from dust and will return to dust.	有句话说得好我们来于尘土归于尘土
I believe this is the beginning of true environmental responsibility.	我相信这是对环境切实负责的第一步
Only months later, I discover who he really was.	几个月之后我发现了他的真实身份
He was the China representative for the American Soybean Association.	他是美国大豆协会驻中国代表
Only jerk wasn't the word I used.	不过我当时不是用的混蛋这个词
I said, "You could've gotten me fired."	我说，"你会让我被解雇的"
"Travel the world and have lots of kids."	"带着很多孩子周游世界。"
And for years, it seemed like we were succeeding.	在好几年里，我们似乎获得了成功
And then more years pass, and the cancer begins to grow.	更多年过去了癌细胞又开始生长
This time, there's new treatments on the horizon.	这次，又有新的治疗方法进入视线
So he enters a clinical trial, and it works.	他参与了这次临床试验，并且成功了
So we fought, we struggled, we triumphed.	我们战斗过，挣扎过，也胜利过
So what do we make of all of this?	我们所做的这一切是为了什么？
Yet we never got to no further hope.	我们从来没有完全失去希望
Now, what do the experts call this?	现在，专家们怎么称呼这种心态？
It's a strong word, isn't it?	一个很强烈的词，是不是？
It's so clear, yet they're in denial."	很明显，他们拒绝接受现实。"
Now, I think this maybe isn't a very useful way of thinking.	我想这并不是一个有效的思维方式
The medical professionals too, you out there, you're in denial too.	你作为医生也是在拒绝现实
Maybe we don't need a new piece of paper.	我们可能不需要一张新的纸片
People did mention hospice, but I wouldn't listen.	有人跟我提过临终关怀不过我没有听
And isn't that what we're missing?	这正不是我们所缺失的吗？
The overwhelming presence of hope isn't denial.	紧紧抱住一点点希望不是拒绝现实
What does this all mean for us?	这些东西对于我们意味着什么?
Why are we talking about microalgae?	可为什么我们一定要用微藻？
At NASA, you have to have good acronyms.	在NASA你必须有好的缩写名字
And the system is contained. What do I mean by that?	这个系统是封闭的。是什么意思呢？
Actually, exactly the opposite is what I'm going to do.	事实上，我要做的事恰恰相反。
You're being constrained by the public's opinion.	政府被公众的意见所驱使。
Even Prime Minister Manmohan Singh agrees with that view.	即使总理辛格也同意这样的做法。
You cannot be constrained by the public's opinion.	你不能被公众的意见所驱使。
The picture there is Khrushchev.	这是一张赫鲁晓夫的图片。
And this is clearly the story of the Chinese economic growth.	这是个明显的中国经济增长的故事。
Let me look at this question more directly.	让我来更直接的看这个问题。
Is democracy bad for economic growth?	民主政治对经济增长不好吗？
Those two countries are geographically similar.	这两个国家在地理上是相似的。
They have a complicated, but shared common history.	它们拥有复杂的，但互通的历史。
China was during the Cultural Revolution.	中国那时还处于文化大革命时期。
And this is the earliest data that I can find.	而且这是我可以找到的最早的资料。
I haven't told you about the definition of literacy.	我还没有定义什么是识字。
So you have to always think carefully about these decisions.	所以关于这些决定你一定要小心考虑
So India is reverting to the normal.	所以印度正在回到正常的状态。
India still has a long way to go to catch up with China.	印度要赶上中国还有很长的路要走。
Then the issue is, what about the Chinese political system?	那么问题是，中国的政治体系如何？
There are also financial reforms in rural China.	在中国农村也有金融改革。
There is also a rural entrepreneurial revolution in China.	在中国农村也有企业家革命。
Comparing with a superstar is the wrong benchmark.	与超级巨星相比是个错误的标准。
Which country has the growth momentum?	哪个国家拥有增长的势头？
But I believe that India has the momentum.	但是我认为印度拥有增长的势头。
I mean, this is what is happening inside your brain.	它就是在你的大脑里发生的事情。
These are standard in all the industrialized worlds.	这些是所有工业化世界的标准。
They seem to have the expertise to keep cars working.	他们有养汽车的专业技能。
In the inside, it's all car parts.	在它里面，全由汽车零部件组成。
I mean, this is one vision of it.	我的意思是，这是一种观念。
Darwin is a great example of this.	达尔文是一个很好的例子。
Could you just give me some time to do that?"	你能不能给我一些时间做它呢？"
But that's a key thing.	但是，这里有一个关键环节。
And of course, this is nerd heaven, right?	当然，这是书呆子的天堂，对不对？
And he said, "Oh, that's great.	弗兰克说，"哦，太棒了。
Because see, I have these new nuclear submarines that I'm building.	因为，这些新建造的核潜艇。
Could you work on that problem?"	请问你们能解决这个问题吗？"
And that's how GPS was born.	这就是全球定位系统是如何诞生的。
Let me give you a few numbers to place what's happening.	我以几个数字为例，大家就会明白
In and of themselves, these aren't too mysterious.	就经济本身而言，并无特别神秘之处
I love the Internet. I love my mobile devices.	我爱互联网。也爱移动设备
Think about Amazon, Apple, Google, Starbucks.	看看亚马逊、苹果、谷歌、星巴克
When's the last time you used a travel agent?	你最后一次使用旅行社是什么时候?
We created public health care.	我们创建了公共卫生保障系统
So there you go. That's the truth.	这就是我要告诉你的真相。
His is the little hand.	他的小手可以说是骨瘦如柴。
So this is the sort of momentum that we've got at the moment.	这就是我们目前所看到的发展势头。
We are all, most of us, living to reach this point.	我们大家也都会经历这一时期的。
They loved it. The families and the patients, they loved it.	此举受到病人和家属的欢迎。
We were able to make that happen for them.	我们可以帮他们实行他们的意愿。
The cultural issue had reasserted itself.	文化问题又一次得到了体现。
I think we have to get onto this.	我认为，我们必须做好一件事。
I suggested we should have Occupy Death.	我建议搞一个"占领死亡"运动
Now, I'm an aging hippie.	现在，我是一个老嬉皮士。
I don't think euthanasia matters.	我不认为安乐死会有什么好处
It deprives euthanasia of its oxygen supply.	这能够让安乐死失去理由。
They were living in Hungary, and my mother was born.	他们住在匈牙利时，生下了我母亲
So, to make a long story short, they came to Canada.	嗯，长话短说，他们到了加拿大
My family was on a road trip and we were in the Grand Canyon.	我们全家一起自驾游到美国大峡谷
And something about it just kind of drew me towards it.	我被其中的某些部分吸引住了
The spinal cord had breaks. The neurons were crossing in every which way.	脊髓会折断,神经元也会随意交叉
And they seemed to have cell growth-promoting properties.	他们似乎有促进细胞生长的功能
It seems that cancer is a direct result to injury.	研究表明，癌症是由损伤直接导致的
It hasn't yet become fine-tuned enough to finish what has been initiated.	它不能精确调整这个已经开始的过程
So this really, really fascinated me.	因此，这真的，真的使我着迷。
It's almost as if we're getting back to this starting point.	这可能会让我们回到起点。
Muscle is constantly being used -- constantly being damaged.	肌肉不断地被使用-不断地受到损坏
The grandmother was incredibly fond, deeply in love with this little girl.	祖母对孙女深厚的爱溢于言表。
They slept on the floor at night.	这是她们晚上依偎着睡在地板上。
I decided to follow her to school.	我决定跟她到学校去继续拍摄，
Again, the first one to go to the blackboard to answer questions.	瞧，她又是第一个上黑板答题的。
And she refused any help at all.	但是老人拒绝任何医疗帮助。
So anyway, I left.	不管怎么样，我暂时离开了韩国。
But I was off on assignment.	可是我身上另有一个拍摄任务在，
And I said, "I'm staying in a hotel downtown.	我住在市区的一个旅馆里，
And we went outside, and he was just furious.	餐厅外面，小女孩的舅舅快气炸了，
And I knew I had totally blown this whole thing.	我知道我完全搞砸了一切。
Here I was again, trying to figure out what to do.	我又一次绞尽脑汁的想该怎么办
He had three women helping him take care of these kids.	并请了三位妇女帮他照料这些孩子。
So, this is on the way down to the orphanage.	于是我们去了那个孤儿院，
This is a social worker interviewing Hyun-Sook.	这是那里的义工正在采访贤淑。
He actually agreed to the adoption.	他终于同意让贤淑被领养了。
The first night we'd gotten a room for the kids right next to us.	第一晚我们让孩子们住在隔壁一间。
We were just like, you know, ah, just full of ourselves.	我们俩，你知道，得意极了。
And he closes the door, and the whole room is now filled with smoke.	他关上门，整个屋子已经全是浓烟。
I just remember this unbelievable, just utter chaos.	我只记得那无法想象的巨大混乱。
And the other is unbelievable guilt.	还有一个就是无比的愧疚感。
I remember just being so frightened and terrified.	记得我当时非常恐惧慌张。
I mean, Gene -- thank God for Gene.	谢天谢地，幸亏有格伦在。
It's so weird how life just goes on.	可是奇怪的是生活照样继续着。
This is the elders teaching Gene their dances.	这张是长者们在教格伦跳她们的舞。
This is Father Keene with Natasha at the bus stop.	这张是神父基恩和娜塔莎在车站。
Her great aunt at the airport.	娜塔莎的阿姨在机场的照片。
It was like the ultimate perk.	这就好像终极津贴一样优惠。
She never liked it very much.	她从来都不喜欢我的胡子。
She learned English in three months.	娜塔莎三个月就基本会说英语了，
Gene's been restoring this car for a million years.	格伦几百年前就开始存这些卡片。
That match was unambiguous.	这些鉴定结果都是十分明确的
"What is life? What is the origin of life?	什么是生命？生命如何起源？
The way we do that, actually, is with a method, which we call the transit method.	我们进行搜寻的方法叫做掩星法
We are not going to see the image of the star and the planet as this.	我们看不到像这样恒星与行星的图像
It basically tells us this is the distribution of planets in size.	首先我们能够得到行星大小的分布
Now the total planet number in our solar system was nine.	现在太阳系中的行星数目是九颗
But you see, we haven't gone very far.	但是，我们几乎没有取得太多的进展
We were still back where Copernicus was.	我们又回到了哥白尼当时的情况
And we didn't have the evidence for that.	但是我没有关于生命的任何证据
You can see here, the small planets dominate the picture.	你们可以看到小的行星占了大多数
And now for the first time, we can say that.	这也是我们首次获得这样的发现
There is a lot more work we need to do with this.	当然，还有很多的工作等着我们完成
Most of these are candidates.	大多数这些行星都还只是候选者
But the statistical result is loud and clear.	但是统计的结果是非常明确的
Our own Milky Way Galaxy is rich in this kind of planets.	我们的银河系有非常多这样的行星
That's great news. Why?	这是个非常令人振奋的结果
We don't need to go to space to answer that question.	我们不需要去太空中探索答案
And that's what many people now are trying to do.	这也是许多人正在努力的方向
So this is one example that I want to show you here.	这只是我想要在这展示的一个例子
So that's what we are building from the left side of the river.	这就是我们在河的左岸所建造的
So why should you care about that?	那么，我凭什么让你们听我的演讲
But there is something more profound here, something deeper.	但是还有更深层次的意义存在
And the more we learn, the more that was reinforced.	我们知道的越多这种感觉也就越强烈
It is seen from, in this case, from outside the orbit of Saturn.	土星轨道外看我们熟悉的地球的样子
The biosphere is the size of the Earth.	地球有多大生物圈就有多大
Life on Earth is the size of the Earth.	地球上的生命就是地球的大小
The universe and life are both in space and time.	宇宙与生命都存在于时空当中
And the good news is we can actually, indeed do it.	好消息是我们确实能够做些事情
There were quite many people infected in the United States.	也就是说在美国有很多人被感染
But first, I have a new invention here.	但在这之前，我要先拿出我的新发明
So, ready, steady, go!	好，准备，坐稳了，开始！
So there's some problem with these metrics now.	所以这个测量方法现在有点问题
But it's very good that what is done is being done.	但已经做的这些治疗毕竟是件好事
But focus now is back on prevention.	但现在的关注点已经回到了预防上
I would say, HIV is very different in Africa.	我得说，HIV在非洲也是不同的
It's not respectful, and it's not very clever to think that way.	这么想很不尊重也很不明智
I found out that Salt Lake City and San Francisco were different.	我发现盐湖城和旧金山就很不一样
And so it is in Africa -- it's a lot of difference.	非洲也是一样--各地有很多不同
So, why is it so high? Is it war?	那，为什么会这么高？因为战争？
And this is peaceful Zambia, neighboring country -- 15 percent.	而和平的邻国赞比亚--百分之十五
So, this is the difference within Tanzania.	那么，这是坦桑尼亚的例子
And, I can't avoid showing Kenya.	我必须再举一下肯尼亚的例子
Why do we see this extremely high levels in some countries?	为什么有些国家的感染率那么高？
But where are they situated?	那地理上的分布又是怎么样呢？
Arab countries not so much, but Iran is quite high.	阿拉伯国家不多，但伊朗很高
They have heroin addiction and also prostitution in Iran.	伊朗的问题是海洛因和卖淫
India has many because they are many.	印度有很多因为它本身人口多
It could be concurrency.	可能是同时拥有多重性伴侣
Don't jump to conclusions now on how to behave tonight and so on.	别轻易得出结论今晚就去胡搞
And what is concurrency?	什么是同时拥有多重性伴侣？
In Sweden, we have no concurrency.	在瑞典我们没有多重性伴侣
And you collect a big number of exes.	这样你会有很多"前"女友
You can get this chart, free.	大家可以免费来拿这份图表
Let's talk about past and future billions.	我们来说说过去和将来的数以亿计
And we know that most of them are dead.	当然大多数人已经不在人世了
And you can see here that there's an exponential Great Divergence.	大家可以看到大分流的走势
They start off pretty close together.	这两条曲线一开始非常接近
And that's allowing for differences in the cost of living.	这就产生了生活消费的差异
It's based on purchasing power parity.	这是建立在购买力对等基础上的
This wasn't just an economic story.	这并不仅仅只是一个经济问题
One, empire was the least original thing that the West did after 1500.	第一1500年以后帝国到处都是
So it really doesn't look like empire is a great explanation for the Great Divergence.	所以大分流并不见得是帝国造成的
This must be true because a Scotsman said it.	这千真万确这可是一位苏格兰人说的
So I'm going to translate this into language that you can understand.	所以我要把它翻译成通俗易懂的语言
They're just icons; you click on them.	它们就像一个个图标手指一点就行了
But behind the icon, there's complex code.	然而在图标背后则是复杂的程序
Once you do that, your artillery becomes accurate.	这么做能够保证炮弹打击的精准度
That's what makes the difference between North America and South America.	北美洲和南美洲为何如此不同
But at the end of it, you've got a hundred acres of land.	而五年之后你得到了一百公顷的土地
Hardly anyone in South America did.	而在南美洲拥有土地的人寥寥无几
That's another killer app.	这又是一个"致命"应用程序
You need people to want to wear tons of clothes.	你需要大量需要购买衣服的人
You've all bought an article of clothing in the last month; I guarantee it.	你们上个月肯定都买过衣服我敢保证
In fact, the West has lost its work ethic.	事实上西方的职业道德已经沦丧了
Because it's on your watch that this is happening.	因为你正亲眼目睹正在发生的这些事
And could Africa get that sequencing wrong?	非洲是否在下载顺序上出了错
The West may collapse very suddenly.	西方世界可能转眼间就崩塌了
He was an expert in Latin American history.	他可是拉丁美洲历史方面的专家
And that's all we seem to be caring about recently.	似乎我们最近都在担心这些事情
I think that's its real importance.	我认为这才是其重要性所在
Spiders are truly global citizens.	蜘蛛遍布全球，这点勿庸置疑
Hey! Don't laugh. That's my life.	嘿！别笑！那可是我的人生！
We spend long days and nights staring at this part of the spider.	我们整日整夜的瞪着蜘蛛的吐丝器
There's also aciniform silk, which is used to wrap prey.	还有葡萄状腺丝用于捕获猎物
Minor ampullate silk is used in web construction.	小壶状腺丝则用于建构蛛网
But what, exactly, is spider silk?	但准确的说，蛛丝究竟是什么？
This is the kind of sequence that I love looking at day and night.	这种序列我每日每夜百看不厌
Some of them are orb-weaving spiders and some of them are non-orb-weaving spiders.	有些是圆网蜘蛛有些是非圆网蜘蛛
Yet, their draglines are not the toughest.	然而，它们的拖丝并非最强韧的
Think of hunting with silly string.	相较于用愚蠢的丝线来捕猎
It frees us from the constraints of our imagination.	它将我们从想象力的束缚中解放出来
How do groups get anything done? Right?	一群人要如何完成某项任务？
So, that's what I want to talk about today.	这就是我今天所要探讨的内容。
Some people get less dressed up.	当然也有些人不怎么"装扮"。
Secondly, you have to bring structure into place.	其次，还需要建立层级结构
Right? You have to have economic structure.	一个机构需要有经济结构，
You lose the institutional imperative.	当然，你会失去机构的控制力量，
And this is a general aspect of these cooperative systems.	这是合作性系统中的普遍方面。
"Call me when you get off work." Right?	"下班了给我打电话"。是吧？
So, the head of the curve can be sharper or flatter.	所以曲线的顶端可以更锐或更平，
Institutions hate being told they're obstacles.	机构讨厌被别人成为阻碍者。
Right? How do you capture that?	你要怎么才能取得那部分价值？
Do you want that patch, right?	问题是你到底要不要这个修补程序？
The inventors don't know what the invention is.	创造者并不知道创造产物是什么。
I think this is a revolution.	我认为这将会是一个重大变革。
It's a revolution in that it's a change in equilibrium.	它是一场改变平衡关系的革命。
How will they share ideas and opinions?	人们如何分享想法和意见？
We're used to support groups being beneficial.	我们习惯于支持对我们有利的团体，
Flavor is king. Flavor rules.	美味才是王道！美味至上！
The other pre-dough that we make is fermented -- our pre-ferment.	另一种预备面团，是发酵好了的，
And this is what every student has to begin with.	这是每个学徒的第一节课。
It's yeast burps and sweat.	面包就是酵母的饱嗝和汗。
The final fermentation takes place in stage nine.	最后的发酵在第九步发生。
Three transformations take place in the oven.	在烤箱中，会发生三个转变。
The sugars in the dough caramelize in the crust.	面团中的糖分，在面包皮中焦化，
And we harvest those seeds, and those are the wheat kernels.	我们收获这些种子，得到麦粒。
It's just a euphemism for killing, right?	收获只是杀掉的委婉说法，对吧？
Yes, we slaughter, you know. Yes, that's life.	是啊，我们是屠夫，这就是生活。
We can plant those in the ground.	因为我们可以把种子种在地里，
And we save some of those for the next generation.	同时再为后代存了一些种子。
But most of those seeds get crushed and turned into flour.	但大多数种子，被研磨，变成面粉。
And at that point, the wheat has suffered the ultimate indignity.	此时麦粒们刚经历了天大的侮辱。
That's a transformation, two different things.	是一种转型，这是两个不同的东西。
And what do we do? We add some water.	下面我们该做什么？加水。
And at stage 10, we take it to the oven.	在步骤十里，我们把它放入烤箱。
So you see the symbolism at work? It's starting to come forth a little bit, you know.	看到我们正在使用的象征意义了吧？
Third transformation. First transformation, alive to dead.	第三个转型。第一个转型，生到死。
We're going to take some of that, and put it into the bread.	我们拿一点这个，放入面包。
What I'd like to do today is to start with an excerpt of a piece of music at the piano.	我想以一段在钢琴上的音乐开始
It's going to be a kind of a refrain as we go through the presentation.	在整个演讲中会是一种重复
It's a bunch of crazy pictographic notation.	是一组疯了一般的图像式的谱子
I took the idea of the wristwatch, and I turned it into a musical score.	我把一个腕表变成了音乐谱子
Let's watch a little bit of this, and please notice the instrumentation.	让我们看一点,尤其注意乐器部分
It's better with a florist, right?	我肯定会是个好的种花人,对吧?
And I'll perform just an excerpt of "Aphasia" for you here. Okay?	我就为你演奏一部分,可以吧?
So how do we actually ask them the question?	那我们应该如何向他们提问呢？
But then what Betty did was to take a little taste of food from each bowl.	但是贝蒂随后品尝了这两种食物。
And she would act as if she liked it or she didn't.	然后作出了喜欢或不喜欢的表情。
I tasted the crackers. Eww, yuck."	我居然吃了饼干。真恶心。"
And sort of the posterbirds for this idea are the birds up there.	图片上的鸟可以证明这个观点。
On one side is a New Caledonian crow.	左边是一只新喀里多尼亚岛的乌鸦。
So they seem to be beautifully suited to pecking grain in one environment.	那件事就是在一个环境中啄食。
We don't have to do anything. All we have to do is learn.	我们不需要做任何事。只学就够了。
So what scientists do is they have a hypothesis that they think might be likely to start with.	科学家们的方法是先准备一个假设
And what Bayes showed was a mathematical way that you could do that.	贝斯将该过程转换为一个数学公式。
All right, now that might seem like an even taller order to actually demonstrate.	当然，这个要实际说明很困难。
How could it be that children are doing statistics?	那孩子们怎么可能会做统计呢？
It looks as if the waving is a more effective strategy than the other strategy.	摇摆看起来比其它方法更有效
Now there are two things that are really interesting about this.	实验过程中有两个有趣的发现。
Alison Gopnik: Okay, so his first hypothesis has just been falsified.	所以他的第一个假设已经被否认了。
AG: Okay, he's got his experimental notebook out.	看到没有，他开始记笔记了。
AG: Every scientist will recognize that expression of despair.	科学家们都见过这种绝望的表情。
Oh, the bottom of this box has electricity in here, but this doesn't have electricity.	盒子下面呢这里有电，但这边没电。
So you put four on this one to make it light up and two on this one to make it light up.	你在这上面摆四个这上面摆两个。
Well, what's it like to be this kind of creature?	当小孩子是什么样一种经历呢？
So we have a very focused, purpose-driven kind of attention.	我们的注意力非常集中，有目的。
So babies and young children are very bad at narrowing down to just one thing.	所以他们不擅长将问题简化。
I don't want to say too much about how wonderful babies are.	小孩子有多好我也不多说了。
They pretty much look the same.	所有的动作看起来都一样。
And you can see he looks always the same.	你可以发现每次它看起来都一样。
They are a graphical visualization of a character.	它们是"人"的虚拟图像。
What we tried to do was teach a stick figure how to walk.	仅仅是训练这个火柴人走路。
At the beginning, they're all going to be very boring.	一开始火柴人的反应都挺没劲的。
It took about three to four hours to run the simulation.	整个模拟试验一般要三四个小时。
And this is an example of a successful evolutionary run.	这里是个进化成功的例子。
That was the real breakthrough for us.	这对我们来说是个真正的突破。
And what you see is, it's going to fall over the obstacle.	你将会看到，它会被障碍物绊倒。
Okay. That's the video. Thanks.	好的，这里就是这个片段。谢谢。
The reason for that is that there's no intelligence in it.	这是因为我们没有放人工智能进去。
It becomes interesting when you put artificial intelligence into it.	当我们放人工智能进去就有趣多了。
It's going to turn around into the fall, and try and catch the fall.	向跌倒的方向转身，试图撑住。
So here, we've got the same character.	这里看到的是同一个模拟人，
What this is now is a real simulation. That's what I want to show you now.	这里我给你看的是真的模拟人生。
Again, a push, now this time from the front.	再来一次，推一下，从前面
And you see it falls differently.	你看它跌到的方式又变了。
That was really exciting for us to see that.	我们看到这个结果很激动，
That was the first time we've seen that.	这是第一次我们看到成果。
And what they said was, the first thing they need immediately is virtual stuntmen.	他们最需要的是虚拟替身。
You can see, it's always reacting.	你可以看到，模拟人总会反应，
And let's just have a look at a slightly different visualization.	然我们看看一些不同的情境，
This is a slightly different angle, and again a slow motion version of this.	这是另一个角度，还是慢动作。
This is incredibly quick. This is happening in real time.	这一切都发生得很快，实时发生的。
This is another behavior they requested.	这是另一个他们需要的动作。
And it looks organic. It looks realistic.	它的动作看起来很自然，很真实。
Got a very short clip here.	这里是这个真的电影片断。
The second thing is video games.	第二个应用就是电脑游戏。
A third thing we are looking at and very interested in is simulation.	这是第三个我们非常感兴趣的应用。
Just finally, this is only just the beginning.	最后，我想说这只是个起步，
We can only do several behaviors right now.	我们现在只能做一些特定的动作，
That's what we thought was going to come out of this.	这也是我们原本预计的结果。
But this is what emerged out of it, in the end.	结果这是我们最后看到的东西。
That's just the simulation creating this itself, basically.	这都是这个模拟人自己产生的。
I'm an artist and a dad -- second time around.	我是名艺术家和两个孩子的父亲
And I want to share with you my latest art project.	我想把我最近的艺术作品分享给大家
Shake it, and you have a lesbian couple.	摇一下他们就变女同性恋了
You know, I don't even believe in the concept of an ideal family.	我其实不相信世上有完美家庭
This caused major riots in my city.	这在我的城市引起轩然大波
I'm like, "Dude, I'm Hindu."	我回应说"小家伙我就是印度教的"
Imagine history being taught differently.	试想若历史能用一种新方式教
It's a children's book about Indian independence -- very patriotic.	做一本关于印度独立的书很爱国吧
But when you shake it, you get Pakistan's perspective.	摇一下就变巴基斯坦的视角
Shake it again, and you get the British perspective.	再摇一下就变成英国人的视角
But they're playing geopolitics.	但是它们代表着地区政治的意义
You know, I'm making a very important argument.	我要作出一个很重要的论证
I'm making an argument that art and creativity are very essential tools in empathy.	我觉得艺术和创造力是共鸣的支柱
I ignored my boss' warning. I called on a Monday morning.	我没听老板的警告在周一早上打的
I'm still on hold. I'm listening to the sounds of silence.	我仍被搁置我正聆听着寂静之声
In my dreams I fantasize of wreaking vengeance on you guys.	我在梦中幻想对你们实施报复
I've always been a technology nut, and I absolutely love it.	我一直都是个技术控这工作太棒了
This is what the computer interface used to look like, DOS.	这是以前计算机界面的样子DOS
Reagan was President. Madonna was still a brunette.	里根还是总统麦当娜还是黑头发
I once had the distinct privilege of sitting in on the Apple call center for a day.	我曾有幸在苹果的呼叫中心坐了一天
The guy had a duplicate headset for me to listen to.	接线员给了我一个旁听的耳麦
It's more like joining a club where you pay dues every year.	则更像是加入俱乐部每年缴纳会费
Let's create a word processor that's just a word processor.	让我们做一个单纯的文字处理器
And none of you are nodding in acknowledgment because it died.	你们中没人知道它因为它已死
You can do buttons; you can do sliders, pop-up menus, sub-menus.	你可以做出按钮滑块弹出菜单子菜单
They could have put them all out in view.	他们其实可以把选项放到外面
There are these "wizards" everywhere.	于是这些向导变得到处都是
So there is a limit that we don't want to cross. So what is the answer?	因此我们做事要有限度但答案在哪?
Palm is also, especially in the old days, wonderful about this.	Palm也是尤其是在过去精于此道
That is a company not counting taps.	这就是不计算点击数的公司
Sometimes it's garbage, but the press is snowed.	有时代码是垃圾但媒体都已被忽悠
I write the code that fits the world today.	我的代码适用于今天的世界
The signs might indicate that the complexity crunch is only going to get worse.	迹象表明复杂度危机只会变得更糟
But the iPod won! This is the one they wanted.	但是iPod赢了!这是人们想要的
And it's not just what I dictate that it writes down. Period.	这并不只是单纯的我说它写句号
So that's my dirty little secret. Don't tell anyone.	这就是我的小秘密别告诉其他人
So the point is, this a really interesting story.	要点是这是个真正有趣的故事
Be aware in life of good design and bad design.	在生活中留意好的和不好的设计
And what I found was quite surprising.	我找到的答案让我颇为吃惊。
And this is a consequence of the fact that these new technologies tend to be digital.	这是新技术数字化的一个直接后果。
And it was quite an experience to be there.	那可是个相当难忘的经历。
Thousands of people started writing about this.	成千上万的人开始动笔写这件事情。
If you put electricity on them, they emit light.	如果你给它们通电，它们会发光。
It's a strange place inside a nanotube.	纳米管内部的确是个奇怪的地方。
Ethanol -- new ways of making ethanol.	还有乙醇，制造乙醇的新方法，
We need better surveillance.	我们需要更好的监控系统，
We need networks that can find out what's going on.	我们需要能发现事情征兆的网络。
We've got to be able to make the rapid diagnostics quickly.	我们必须能够进行快速的诊断。
We need -- we don't know where this thing is going.	我们还不知道以后将会如何，
So what we need to do is, we need better policy.	所以我们需要的就是更好的政策。
Markets are a very strong force.	市场是一个很强大的力量，
How could you keep the law?	我们如何才能让法律作用常在？
Well, you have to hold people accountable.	你必须保证人们是可以信赖的。
And then of course, I blame the Soviet Union.	当然，我要把这归咎于前苏联
How hard is it going to be to find life on Mars?	在火星上找到生命是多难的一件事？
And those planetary systems are going to be very common.	而此类的行星系统将会是非常常见的
There is sub-surface ice on that planet.	这其中就包括火星地下冰的发现
So the game's afoot, and this is the game that we play in astro-biology.	好戏正在上演，戏台就是天体生物学
How do you know it when you find it?	当我们发现生命后如何才能得知？
We say small, but what does that mean?	我们说它小，但具体有多小？
Well, this is what we apply to our work.	当然我们也把这应用与我们的工作
This is very unusual for caves.	这对于洞穴来说是非常常见的
They take iron and manganese minerals within the bedrock and they oxidize them.	它们将铁和锰带入基岩并将其氧化
And these allow them to hop.	并且使这些机器人具有跳跃的能力
And these little guys -- you could lose many of them.	这些小家伙即使损失很多也无所谓
Everyone, please think of your biggest personal goal.	请大家想想你们最大的人生目标。
Doesn't it feel good to say it out loud?	大声说出来是不是十分爽？
So, if this is true, what can we do?	所以如果这是事实，我们会怎样做？
And to make his prayer book he used parchment.	他用羊皮纸来写这本祈祷书。
He took apart the Archimedes manuscript and the other seven manuscripts.	他将阿基米德和其它七份手稿拆开。
And it became a world famous manuscript.	这后来成为了一份举世闻名的手稿。
Forgeries were painted over it, and it suffered very badly from mold.	被伪造者涂改，被霉菌侵蚀。
Because he wanted to make that which was fragile safe.	因为他希望那脆弱的，被保存下来。
He wanted to make that which was unique ubiquitous.	他希望那稀少的，被传播开来。
He wanted to make that which was expensive free.	他希望那昂贵的，可以惠及世人。
And he wanted to do this as a matter of principle.	对他而言，这是原则问题。
And they got together to work on this manuscript.	他们为了解读这份手稿聚在了一起。
And it's much tougher than the parchment that it was written on.	而且比羊皮纸要强韧很多。
So it took four years to take apart.	我们用了四年时间才将它拆开。
And the image on the right is an ultraviolet image.	右边的则是紫外线扫描的图像。
The thing is that you need a very powerful light source to do this.	这样做需要非常强大的光源。
And this is the most powerful light source in the solar system.	这是太阳系最强大的光源。
And lo and behold, we found that we could do it.	你瞧，我们确实可以做到。
It took about 17 minutes to do a single page.	阅读一页书页需要十七分钟。
And combinatorics is a wonderful and interesting branch of mathematics.	组合学是一门奇妙有趣的数学分支。
He was an exact contemporary of Demosthenes.	他和德摩斯梯尼同处一个时代。
To find three is completely weird.	找到三篇简直是太稀奇了。
Why did the owner of the manuscript do this?	这份手稿的主人为什么这样做呢？
And institutions can learn from this.	相关机构可以学习这种做法。
And it's an attractive and beautiful future, if only we can make it happen.	这样的未来若能成真一定美丽迷人。
under a Creative Commons license.	都用一个知识共享执照对外公布。
Now, let's think about this for a minute.	现在，让我们用一分钟思考。
Why do they go to see the Mona Lisa?	他们为什么去看蒙娜丽莎？
Now, there is no need for these restrictions at all.	其实根本没有必要设立种种限制。
It's like foie gras -- it's not even like steak.	味道就像鹅肝-甚至不能算牛排。
And the charm of white truffles is in their aroma.	白松露的迷人之处在于它的香味。
The magazine wouldn't pay for me to go there.	那家杂志社可不愿出钱让我去那。
And this hotel suite is 4,300 square feet.	这间酒店套房有四千三百平方尺，
It comes with its own wine cellar that you can draw freely from.	有专署酒窖，免费任你享用。
30,000 dollars for a night in a hotel.	酒店一晚房价为三万美元。
But then again, nobody has complimented me on the jeans I'm wearing.	再说说我的牛仔裤，也没有人夸过。
And he goes to great lengths to protect the olive oil from oxygen and light.	而且竭尽全力将其真空避光保存。
But in the blind taste test, it came in last.	但在盲测结果中，它排名最尾。
The luwak is an Asian Palm Civet.	鲁瓦克是亚洲小型麝香猫。
The lid closes, it self-cleans.	盖子合上，它就自动清洁。
This was another one I could not get a loaner of.	笑声这是另一个我借不到的。
Lights glaring in off the street, and we had to hire a security guard and all these things.	街上灯火通明我们不得不雇个保安
But anyway, we had a great night's sleep.	可不管怎么说，我们那晚睡得很好
And you spend a third of your life in bed.	而人的一生有三分之一的时间在床上
And if I was a billionaire, I would get one.	如果我是亿万富翁，我一定买一辆
And they gave subjects the same wine, labeled with different price tags.	他们在相同的红酒上挂了不同的标价
And yet, many of these get built.	類似這樣被造出的還有很多
On the one hand, there's the wanting processes.	在一方面，有一个期望过程
It's a really great image. It's pretty cool.	真是一个绝佳的图像，真的太酷了
Because it's very powerful. It's pretty awesome.	因为它功能强大，它棒极了
Your ambition is satisfied, but it's very beautiful.	你的野心被满足，同时它也是美好的
Because what you can measure in virtuality is everything.	因为在虚拟世界你可以度量任何东西
Go and get a certain amount of a certain little game-y item.	去寻找一定数量的某些游戏小玩意
But we don't just have pies in the boxes.	但我们在箱子里找到的不只是馅饼。
And each of these rewards is carefully calibrated to the item.	每一个奖励都被仔细和物品校准
Our games don't always do this.	我们的游戏并不一直做这些事情
So what does all this mean in practice?	所有这些对现实有什么意义？
So, you give people lots and lots of different tasks.	所以你给人们很多很多不同的任务
It's very hard to learn, to feel a lesson.	这非常难以学习或者体会经验
It's associated with reward-seeking behavior.	它与寻找奖励的行为相关联
I'm Ellen, and I'm totally obsessed with food.	我是艾伦，我对食物非常着迷。
But I didn't start out obsessed with food.	但我最初并未打算研究食物的问题，
"What are you doing for America's kids?"	你能为美国的孩子们做什么？
Well, agriculture in America's very interesting.	好吧，美国的农业很有意思。
Who is farming them? That's what I was wondering.	谁在耕种呢？我一直想不明白。
I think that's the only way to look at it.	这是唯一看待这个问题的方法。
So that's the first birthday I want to talk about.	这是我要谈到的第一个生日。
I'm going to speak to you today about architectural agency.	今天我来和大家聊聊建筑事务所。
And we architects are cowards.	而我们建筑师却成了胆小鬼。
But it has to be done together.	这必须由你们共同参与完成。
This is the modus operandi that we have today.	这是我们现在惯用的伎俩。
And this had to do with the ambitions of the leadership.	这与政治野心和领导势力有关。
The second issue is a nuance of the first.	第二个重要议题和第一个稍有不同
And that's that the company and the building was multiform.	就是表演人员和场地是多用途的
The architectural manifestation was frankly just dumb.	建筑展示是事实的呈现，无需语言。
We created what we like to call superfly.	我们把我们的创造叫做"超级苍蝇"
In fact it really was the clients who had to do it.	事实上是客户需要做这事儿。
Now that, I would say, is architecture performing.	我想说，这简直就是建筑的表演。
I'll do it again so you can see it.	我再放一遍，让你们看得清楚点
That's an enormous benefit.	在这儿办活动的好处太多了。
Here it is in a thrust configuration.	这是第三种延伸出来的结构。
And think of it being done with just a few people.	影片进行了处理，只留下几个人。
This is a picture of me from a very awkward stage in my life.	这是我还很笨拙的时候画的一幅画。
Have fun in whatever you do."	无论你做什么都开心快乐。"
It's called "We Feel Fine."	它叫做"我们感觉好"的。
This is, then, how they're presented.	然后，我把它这样展示出来。
These are the images that are automatically constructed.	它们是一些自动合并在一起的图片。
"I feel skinny, but I'm not."	"我觉得骨感，但我并没有。"
Sometimes, stories as short as two or three words.	有些只有两三句左右的长短。
These are organized chronologically.	它们按照时间的顺序排列。
This is out at whale camp, on the Arctic Ocean.	这是捕鲸露营时在北冰洋上的。
And then finally, I would ask them to make a wish.	最后，我会让他们许一个愿。
She wanted to keep farming until she dies.	她想一直务农直到她死去。
A 21-year-old monk. He was very happy.	一位21岁的僧侣。他非常的快乐。
She wanted to become an independent woman.	她想成为一名独立的女性。
She'd built a little fire to keep warm, right next to the road.	她在路边生了一把火来取暖。
Her wish was to marry someone with a car.	她的愿望是嫁一个有车的男人。
And this is what she said.	下面我们来听一下她是怎么说的。
And they're actually still flying up there today.	实际上，他们今天应该还飘在那边。
That's what we're probably genetically specified for.	这个大概就是出于我们人类的本能。
That's how much of a latterly thing writing is.	大家可见文字是最近才出现的。
Ordinary people stood and listened to that for two hours.	普通人得站着听两个小时。
It was perfectly natural.	这在当时是非常平常的事情。
Now we can write the way we talk.	现在我们可以像说话一样打字。
This Julie says, "So what's up?"	朱莉说，"最近怎么样？"
She's not amused. Let's think about it.	这么看的话，她可不开心。
It's a way of using the language between actual people.	这就是人们使用语言的一种方式。
That's kind of like what we're at.	我们通常这么使用这个字。
That's also true of being bidialectal.	这在精通两种方言上同样适用。
I'd just like to show a clip from a most recent project.	我就展示一段我最新项目的视频。
He's making a, kind of, cheek-flapping sound.	他正在发出，一种，拍面颊的声音。
Why are we spending $135 billion?	为什么我们花费1350亿美金？
Why have we got 130,000 troops on the ground?	为什么我们仍然有13万地面部队？
Why are we still stuck in Afghanistan?	为什么我们仍然被困在阿富汗？
All of this is wrong.	上述所有的这些都是错误的。
They simply don't have a conventional military option.	他们根本没有常规的军事解决途径。
Today, he could never do that.	今天，他再也不能这样做了。
How do we allow any of this to happen?	我们是怎么允许这些事情发生的？
You feel deep, deep guilt.	你有种深深，深深的罪恶感。
What is the solution to this?	那么什么是解决这些的方案呢？
And there was not a single Pashto speaker.	而且没有一个说普什图语的人。
So we need to change that institutional culture.	所以我们需要改变这种制度文化。
And thirdly, we need to have some humility.	第三，我们需要有谦卑之心。
Why mountain rescue?	为什么是山峰紧急救援呢？
This is the wrong way of looking at it.	这是一个错误的方法去看干预。
We put our toes in and we go up to our neck.	我们都无法得到最好的结果。
Let me just give you two examples.	接下来，我就用两个例子予以说明。
That's what a hydrophilic surface does.	这些现象都反应了纸张的亲水特性。
The fluid wicks its way into those chambers at the top.	滴入的尿液集中在这个小槽中，
So, the production capability is there.	所以，产能上基本没有限制。
Now, you say, "If paper is a good idea, other people have surely thought of it."	好了现在在座的各位都应该认同
And the answer is, of course, yes.	纸是非常好用的一种材料，对。
I'll show you in a moment, that's actually quite useful.	待会，我再说明这个的具体用处。
It's what's called "fever of undiagnosed origin."	这类似于"发热确诊原因"的情形
There are an awful lot of things that you'd like to distinguish among.	因为实在是有太多的可能性了
Now even that's more complicated than you think.	还个因素比我们想象的要更复杂。
Now, take a look at what a typical test looks like.	言归正传，我们来看一例典型的测试
Here is another example of something which is -- this is a little spectrophotometer.	这里还有个关于分光光度计的例子
He won 375 electoral votes.	他赢得了375张选举人的投票。
One exception is in Massachusetts.	一个例外是在马萨诸塞州。
He lost no worse than most people do.	他输的其实还不像大部分人那么惨。
We think of a bunch of rednecks, quote, unquote, with guns.	"我们会想到一群乡下人"拿着枪。
And the answer is: it is at least partially fair.	而答案是，至少一部分是公平的。
Or are there more systematic factors at work?	还是有更多系统性的因素在起作用？
It's about who you live with.	其实就看你跟什么样的人住在一起。
Within a few minutes, she went into cardiac collapse.	几分钟内她就心血管虚脱了
Ladies and gentlemen, that is not an unusual story.	诸位这不是个不寻常的故事
Unfortunately, it happens all the time.	不幸的是，这样的事一直在发生
I'm a physician practicing with cutting-edge technology.	我是个掌握尖端技术的内科医生
She says, "I left him with my sister at Leith."	她说，我拜托住在利斯的姐姐照顾了
And Bell then goes on to explain to the students.	然后贝尔向他的学生解释说
And so she must have taken the ferry over.	所以我推测出她是从那里过来
And it was followed a year or two later by Laennec discovering the stethoscope.	一两年后莱尼克发明了听诊器
And that is how stethoscope and auscultation was born.	这就是听诊器和听诊法的由来
And it's interesting that Fildes picked this topic.	有趣的是菲尔德斯选择了这个主题
It's been on calendars, postage stamps in many different countries.	出现在很多国家的挂历上和邮票上
Would he have substituted a computer screen for where he had the patient?	他是不是得把患者换成电脑屏幕？
The real patient often wonders, where is everyone?	真的病人倒在奇怪人都哪里去了？
And the one critical piece missing is that of the patient.	最重要的部分－病人却缺失了
And I pressed her, and I asked her, "Why did you come back and get your care here?"	我问她你问什么回来接受康复？
She said, "The cancer center was wonderful.	她说，"那个癌症中心非常棒
But," she said, "but they did not touch my breasts."	但是"他们根本没碰我的胸部"
Something of importance had transpired in the exchange.	通过交流一些重要的信息已经透露
And they helped me understand that rituals are all about transformation.	他们帮助我理解了仪式意味着转变
That was the original intent, was it not?	我们结婚原本是这么希望的，是吧？
I'll show you an example of a bad idea.	让我给你们看看坏主意长什么样子
This was given to us by NBC Dateline to test.	NBC晨间节目把这个给我们做测试
It's called the Quadro 2000 Dowser Rod.	称为Quadro2000探测棒。
No, it -- well, it has kind of a right-leaning bias.	不，噢！它似乎会偏右边。
It'll go this way for sure.	从这边走应该就会朝向这边了。
In this case, we tested it.	在这个例子中，我们测试了这仪器。
Are people getting smarter or dumber?	人是愈来愈聪明？还是愈来愈笨？
It's like, are science and plumbing compatible?	像是在问科学与水电并立吗？
These -- they're just two different things.	这些它们其实就是两种不同的东西。
Science is not a thing. It's a verb.	科学不是东西，而是动词，
Or that the "World Weekly News" makes stuff up?	或是世界新闻周刊捏造的呢？
It doesn't offer anything. There's nothing to test.	不能提供什么。没有东西可以测试。
Camera's ready -- that's it.	相机准备好--就这么简单。
First of all, there was no theory of planetary rings.	首先，那时没有行星环的理论，
It wasn't till -- Huygens had two things.	但是一直到惠更斯有了两样东西，
And then I'll go to more serious ones.	然后，我之后会再说比较多的例子。
Like, we have a tendency to see faces.	例如，我们会倾向看见脸孔，
If you squint, you can still see the face.	如果你斜视仍可以看见脸，
Faces are important for us socially.	在社交上，脸孔对我们很重要，
Faces of all kinds are easy to see.	各种脸孔都很容易被看见。
You can see the happy face on Mars, there.	你可以看见火星上的笑脸在上面。
Virgin Mary in Clearwater, Florida.	圣母玛利亚在佛罗里达州的清水市。
Here is the forward -- this is the most famous one of all of these.	这是向前转的，也是最有名的一段。
Boy, couldn't you just listen to that all day?	天啊！这音乐可以让人听一整天。
So I'll end with the new version.	而我也将以这新版本结束这演讲。
That is the primary function of an incubator.	给婴儿保暖是恒温箱的主要功能。
What you see here looks nothing like an incubator.	它看起来一点也不像个恒温箱。
But the magic is in this pouch of wax.	但神奇的地方就在这一包蜡里。
And the other thing about these guys is, they also know what they do for a living.	而这些人他们也知道自己如何谋生
And I've been studying it for a couple years.	我花了几年时间来研究这个问题
And I want to share a couple stories with you today.	今天我想和大家分享一些故事
Now there is a bunch of reasons for that, and stories about it.	这么做有很多的原因和故事
He just stepped up and said, "Follow me."	他只是站出来并且说"跟我来!"
Someone stands up and says, "This one is important.	有人站起来说的是"这一只很重要"
The first one is, who exactly are you upsetting?	第一个问题,你在惹恼哪些人?
The second question is, who are you connecting?	第二个问题,你现在正联系着谁?
And the third one is, who are you leading?	第三个问题,你正领导着谁?
Do you know what people want more than anything?	你知道人们最最需要什么东西吗?
So I'd like you to do something for me.	所以,我想要你们为我做一些事情
Why are we so bad at detecting pancreatic cancer?	检测胰腺癌为何成效不佳？
Learning this, I knew there had to be a better way.	我得知后，觉得一定有更佳方法
They're kind of like the superheroes of material science.	有点像物质科学的超级英雄
Then, suddenly, a thought occurred that kind of put a blemish on my amazing plan here.	然后我突然想到我这个妙计有点瑕疵
I can't really do cancer research on my kitchen countertop.	我没有办法在厨房的台面上研究癌症
well, I've got to tell you, it's just not going to be pretty.	我可以告诉你，结果将是不堪设想。
But it's not about fire and brimstone either.	但军火和硫磺也不是重点。
We're not talking here about a clash of civilizations.	我们不是在讨论文化的分歧。
And when you love, how does it feel?	还有，当你爱时，你有什么感受?
Give me comfort, give me edge.	安抚我的同时带给我刺激。
Give me novelty, give me familiarity.	给我新鲜感的同时又要保持亲密。
Because therein lies the mystery of eroticism.	横亘在这两者之间的是性欲的奥秘。
Or in other words, I sometimes say, fire needs air.	换言之，"一个巴掌拍不响啊"
Not attracted sexually, per se, but most drawn.	我说的是呆在一起而不是一起性爱
Radiant, as in self-sustaining.	光芒四射，在自我维系中也如此。
There is no caretaking in desire.	性欲不存在谁照顾谁的问题。
What parts of you are just being seen?	你的哪一面你的爱人熟悉？
It won't make a dent. There is nobody at the reception desk.	没有人知道的，前台没有人呢。
You know, the erotic mind is not very politically correct.	性想法在政治上不算很合适
I will lose my freedom in order not to lose connection.	要想不失去爱，我就得失去自由
Child number two comes back but looks like that over their shoulder all the time.	第二个孩子回来但伏在他们的肩上。
Are you going to curse me? Are you going to scold me?	你会诅骂我吗？你会责备我吗？
The third child doesn't really come back.	第三个孩子不会真正的回来
One, they have a lot of sexual privacy.	首先，他们有很多性瘾私。
They understand that there is an erotic space that belongs to each of them.	他们明白各人都应该有各自的空间。
But what they know is they know how to resurrect it.	但是，他们知道怎么恢复它。
Committed sex is premeditated sex.	有承诺的性爱是有预谋的性爱
This is not Talking Heads, in the picture anyway.	不过照片里的还不是传声头像
Other places around the country had similar rooms.	国内还有很多地方有这样的房间
Is that a kind of model for creativity?	这算不算是一种创作模式呢？
The music works perfectly in that setting.	在那种背景下，这样的音乐是完美的
There's no big room to create reverberation and confuse the rhythms.	没有大房间制造混响，干扰节奏
This is the kind of rooms that Mozart wrote in.	类似莫扎特创作时所在的房间
I think we're in like 1770, somewhere around there.	我想大概是1770年左右的建筑
This is the opera house that Wagner built for himself.	这是瓦格纳自己建造的歌剧院
Obviously, this kind of thing became popular.	这类的建筑显然已经流行起来
And they're a lot more reverberant than La Scala.	那里的混响比斯卡拉剧院的更大
That was Bob's last record, yeah.	哈，这是鲍勃的最后一张唱片
So the bands started to improvise new melodies.	因此，乐队开始即兴创作新的曲子
And this was one way that the music got there.	而这是音乐传播到那里的方法之一
And this kind of thing would have been impossible without a microphone.	这种效果没有麦克风绝对做不出来
It would have been impossible without recorded music as well.	如果没有录成唱片，那也无法达到
So at this point, music diverged.	从那个时候起，音乐开始分化
And another new form of music was born.	此外，还诞生了新的音乐模式
The tempos are medium. It sounds big.	节拍不快不慢，听起来很浑厚
Automobile music, you can share with your friends.	我们可以和朋友一起享受汽车音乐
Presumably, this is just for Christian music.	这一个大概只用来听基督教音乐吧
But the pleasure and the passion and the joy is still there.	但乐趣、激情和愉悦仍然存在
We already know where that passion is going.	我们之前就知道激情会走向何方
I was to address a conference at a hotel.	要去参加一个会议会场是一个饭店。
And the man said, "No, who?"	那个人说，"不知道，是谁？"
He said, "You don't say!"	那个喝醉酒的说，"真没想到！"
But they wouldn't allow the Israelis to look into it, or to have any.	但他们不许以色列人学习这种技术。
Now, what causes this?	是什么原因导致了这场战争？
The problem is not technology.	导致这些问题的原因不是技术本身。
What shall I talk to her about?"	我该和她谈些什么话题呢？"
That's what she's really interested in."	这是她真正感兴趣的话题。"
He said, "The Lord is my shepherd."	他说，"耶和华是我的牧者。"
The final problem that David knew he could not solve was death.	最后一个困扰戴维王的问题是死亡。
Most people live as if they're never going to die.	很多人活得好像他们永远不会死。
Technology projects the myth of control over our mortality.	科技让人以为我们能控制死亡。
The old stars, they come to life.	那些已故的明星还活在屏幕上。
And we were meeting in that room, the statue room.	会议的地点是雕塑大厅--
It's difficult for them to understand that they're going to die.	他们很难理解有一天他们也会死亡。
And I said, "Sir, I do."	我回答他，"我相信，先生。"
One day, I was faced face-to-face with Christ.	有一天，我面对面见到了基督
He said, "I am the way, the truth and the life."	他说，"我是道路、真理、生命。"
Or he was what he claimed to be.	他也许真是他自称的那个人。
Thank you, and God bless all of you.	谢谢各位，愿上帝赐福大家。
"What I Will" I will not dance to your war drum.	"我要"我不会因你的战鼓而起舞。
I will not dance to your drummed-up war.	我不会因你鼓声四起的战争而起舞。
I will not hate for you or even hate you.	我不会因你而恨，也不会恨你。
I will not mourn the dead with murder nor suicide.	我不会以谋杀或自杀来悼念死者。
Confused, aspiring pacifists.	困惑的、有抱负的和平主义者。
I mean, I've been saying I've been prepping.	我是说，我一直说我有在准备。
Unwritten books predicted the future, projected the past.	无字之书预示了未来，映射了过去。
Which male child will perish a new day?	哪个男孩会在新的一天死亡？
We mourn women, complicated.	我们悼念女人，心情复杂。
War and tooth, enameled salted lemon childhoods.	战争和牙齿给酸咸的童年上了釉。
I live cycles of light and darkness.	我生活在光明与黑暗的轮回之中。
Sickness, health, tender violence.	疾病，健康，柔弱的暴力。
I think now I never was pure.	我现在觉得我从未纯洁过。
One woman no longer believes love will ever find her.	一个女人再也不信真爱会找上她。
Precipice running to and running from human beings.	危机朝人类跑来，又跑开。
And as she did, other ones came to mind.	与此同时，她也想起了另一些事情。
The advent of the Internet definitely helped her.	互联网的出现无疑是帮了她大忙。
She talked to anybody she could.	她尽可能得要把真相告诉所有人。
So now she had an ally.	所以，盖拉多了一位同盟者。
Nevertheless, people still didn't want to know.	但是，人们依旧不想知道真相。
There's a lot of willful blindness around these days.	近些年有许多"故意无视"的案例。
And the truth is, this is a human problem.	真相是，这是人类的通病。
Nobody would want to go through something like that."	谁愿意经历那样的遭遇啊。"
I wish for her to be a nurse."	我希望她能做一个护士。"
Till today, I have no idea where those two girls are.	至今我还不知道这些女孩在哪里
One of the things that happens is that she applies for a scholarship.	她遭遇的一件事是她申请了奖学金
Today, we've worked with over 300.	今天，我们帮助了超过三百个女孩
She sells water, sells soft drinks and sells recharge cards for cellphones.	她卖水，卖软饮料卖手机充值卡
I wish for food for my children.	我希望我的孩子们有东西吃
I wish that sexual abuse and exploitation in schools would stop."	我希望学校里不再有性虐待和性剥削
This is the dream of the African girl.	这就是这位非洲女孩的梦想
I failed to fulfill the wish of those two girls.	我没能完成这两个非洲女孩的愿望
This young woman wished also to go to school.	这个年轻女性也希望能上学
Teen pregnancy, like I said, is epidemic.	正如我刚说过的，少女怀孕屡见不鲜
I'd like to tell you about two games of chess.	我想告诉你们两场象棋比赛。
At first, the results were predictable.	起初，结果是可以预测的。
The surprise came at the end. Who won?	可结局令人惊讶。谁赢了？
It's become the dominant school of thought in computer science.	它已成为计算机科学的主流学派。
Note that word "cooperate."	请注意，这个词语"合作"。
You can start by designing the human into the process.	您可以从将人设计到过程中开始。
And minimizing friction turns out to be the decisive variable.	尽量减少摩擦原来是决定性变量。
These records were human resource forms.	这些记录是人力资源管理的形式。
The foreign fighters filled them out as they joined the organization.	外国战士填写这些之后加入该组织。
What I thought I would do is I would start with a simple request.	我原本想以一个简单的请求开场。
And I decided that I would try and turn my life around.	于是我决定试着改变我的生活。
And I have four observations I'd like to share with you today.	今天我想跟各位分享四点心得。
Drive the kids to school on the way to the office.	上班的途中送孩子去学校。
Meet some mates in the pub for an early evening drink.	下午和老伙计们在酒吧喝两杯。
How often do you think I have that day?	你觉得我多久能享受如此的一天？
It's totally dominated by work.	它完全被无休止的工作占据。
You want me to go to church and call my mother."	你却要我去教堂、给老妈打电话。"
Now my point is the small things matter.	我想说的是，小事并非无关紧要。
We garnered much support along the way.	一路上我们得到了很多的支持
Poor people are not only still poor; they are still unhealthy.	穷人不仅仅是穷，而且也不健康
Jesus. I grew up with a crack house across the street.	老天。我在街对面的一个危房里长大
These things make me different from you.	这些东西让我显得与你不同
A national highway construction boom was added to our problems.	一个全国公路建设热给我们雪上加霜
Now, why is this story important?	现在，为何这个故事如此重要？
Think bike shops, juice stands.	设想一下自行车商店、饮料摊
Green roofs are soil and living plants.	绿色屋顶都是泥土和鲜活的植被
It's better to ask for forgiveness than permission.	我们更应该寻求宽恕而不是许可
We are more than simply national symbols of urban blight.	而不仅仅是城市萎缩的民族象征
At present, that's not happening in New York City.	目前，纽约市还没有实施这个
And we are operating with a comprehensive urban planning deficit.	我们正面临全面的城市规划财政赤字
So I don't have a problem with developers making money.	所以我对开发商挣钱没有任何异议
For his brilliant efforts, he was nearly impeached.	由于他出色的政绩，她差点被调查
But Bogota's example has the power to change that.	但是波哥大的例子有能力去改变它
Make it a part of your dinner and cocktail conversations.	让它成为你茶余饭后的谈资
I was making him an offer.	我是向他伸出了机会的橄榄枝。
Now, don't get me wrong, we need money.	别误会我了，我们是需要钱
But grassroots groups are needed at the table during the decision-making process.	在决策的过程中需要草根阶层的参与
And let me repeat what you saw last year.	首先我们回顾一下去年的内容
At that time there was a "we" and "them."	那时世界是由"我们和他们"构成的
And I will talk on, is this possible?	我得说这些只是可能发生的
And here, children don't live longer.	但是儿童健康并没有得到很大的改善
And this is the United States moving away here, earning more money.	而这个是美国，人们的钱包越来越鼓
There he died, then Deng Xiaoping brings money.	毛泽东去世后，邓小平带来了金钱
It moves this way over here.	中国朝着高收入的方向发展
And that means United States was richer, but lost more kids than India is doing today, proportionally.	当时的美国更富有儿童死亡率却更高
There's a discrepancy in what's happening today in the emerging economies.	而在今天的新兴国家中发展的差异
And behind the health is the educational level.	而在这个背后，有教育的差距
And they are taking over Sweden, and they are now healthier than Sweden.	现在它的健康水平已经超过了瑞典
And this changes gradually.	但是这种变化是逐步发生的
I think it's the best way of verifying historical statistics.	我认为祖母最适合于验证数据真实性
Sweden was like Ghana.	1891年的瑞典和今天的嘎纳一样
But it's not really that easy, that it's all a good story.	但这些好的现象不能代表全部
But from now on, we count per capita.	从现在起我们算人均CO2排放量
From now on we count per capita.	从现在起我们算人均CO2排放量
This we can call Dollar Street.	现在大家所看到的是"美元街"
What they earn here -- what number they live on -- is how much they earn per day.	上面的数字代表居民每天的收入
And if you really want to see the difference, you look at the toilet over here.	真正的差别其实在厕所大家看这里
These are all pictures and images from Africa, and it can become much better.	这些图片来自非洲但是可以变得更好
My own research has not been in IT or anything like this.	我以前的研究并不是现在的IT领域
Because we don't consider where they came from.	由于我们没有考虑非洲的出身
We have to know a little more about the world.	我们应该更深入了解这个世界
He knows the name of the grape, the temperature and everything.	他知道葡萄的名字，酿酒的温度
I only know two types of wine -- red and white.	我就知道2种葡萄酒，红的和白的
But I have to get serious. And how do you get serious?	后面我要严肃一些，怎么严肃法呢？
It was the government that made law function finally.	而且政府职能是有效司法体系的基础
Education, human resources are important.	再然后是教育，人力资源非常重要
Health is also important, but not that much as a mean.	健康也很重要但不是发展必需的方法
But where are the important goals?	那么什么是最重要的发展目标呢
So the seemingly impossible is possible.	看上去不可能的事情是可能实现的
But actually I'm sort of skeptical about this term.	但事实上，我有些怀疑这个词。
But that doesn't really make you fluent.	但是仅此并不能令你熟练。
It seems that everybody is getting into the act.	好像每个人都行动起来了。
And it doesn't just stay on the screen.	而且这不仅仅停留于频幕。
Here's an example of a project using the microphone.	这里有一个使用麦克风的例子。
Now some of the things you can learn are sort of obvious.	你可以学到的事物，有些很明显。
You learn more about how computers work.	你会学到计算机的运行方式。
It's nothing that, really, they can make use of.	真的，他们学的东西根本用不上。
Now he had a reason for learning variables.	现在他有了学习变量的理由。
They're relevant for all sorts of different activities.	这些能力适用于所有的事情。
Again, it's useful to think about this analogy with language.	同样的，也可以用语言来比喻。
Let me end with just one more example.	让我再用一个作品来结束吧。
The bar is called the Miracle of Science.	在那里有叫科学奇迹的酒吧
We didn't fly him to Boston.	当时我们没有让他飞到波士顿
It's been known for decades what causes this malignancy.	因为多年来人类已知基因变异原因
And so we started to work on this problem.	于是我们开始着手解决这个问题
We just started mailing it to our friends.	我们刚刚开始把它寄给我们的朋友
And every time, we see the same thing.	每一次我们都看到同样的结果
Nice to be able to demonstrate that for you.	能够向你们演示这个真的很好
I want to leave you with just two ideas.	我想要给你们留下两个主意。
Now the business model involves all of you.	这个商业模式需要我们都参与
You bike across the state. You walk up and down the river.	有人骑单车跨州，有人走路过河
We live in a galaxy, the Milky Way Galaxy.	我们生活在一个名为银河的星系
100 billion is the only number you need to know.	所以你记住一千亿这个数字就行了
Which tells you something about our place in the universe.	这就告诉了你我们在这宇宙中的位置
But we would also like to understand it.	但除了欣赏我们也想要了解它们
You might think that that's not a surprise.	你或许觉得这并不值得惊讶
The air in this room is very smooth.	这房间里的空气便十分光滑
The gravitational pull of things was a lot stronger near the Big Bang.	当时的地心引力比现在强很多
If you look at the galaxy, it's moving away.	如果你看见一个星系正离你远去
And this energy, according to Einstein, exerts a push on the universe.	在爱因斯坦看来这能量推动着宇宙
For one thing, the universe will expand forever.	其中之一便是宇宙会永远膨胀下去
Some people thought that the universe would recollapse in the future.	某些人认为宇宙将会再坍缩
The energy of empty space brings to life quantum fluctuations.	真空区的能量带来量子涨落
That implication was studied by Boltzmann back in the 19th century.	玻尔兹曼在19世纪对此进行了研究
He didn't know about the Big Bang. He didn't know about the expansion of the universe.	他没听说过大爆炸也没听过宇宙膨胀
This scenario predicts that we should be a minimal fluctuation.	它预测我们应该是个小涨落
We therefore conclude the universe is not a fluctuation."	所以我们断定宇宙并非涨落
And I would love to tell you the answer, but I'm running out of time.	我很乐意回答你但我没时间了
The universe is expanding for the last 10 billion years or so.	一百多亿年来宇宙不断膨胀着
More homework assignment for you.	还有些回家作业要布置给你们
I'm going to give you my favorite scenario.	就让我来谈谈我最喜欢的情形吧
Either it's just like that. There is no explanation.	也许它本该如此　根本没有解释
Or maybe the Big Bang is not the beginning of the universe.	或者说大爆炸并非宇宙的开端
My English lost, I wanted to vomit.	我英语说的很逊逊到连我都想呕吐
I had never been surrounded by so many azungu, white people.	我从来没有被这么多白人包围过
There was a story I wouldn't tell you then.	本来这个故事我不是很想讲出来
This is me with my dad when I was a little boy.	这是我和我父亲小时候的相片
In Malawi, the secondary school, you have to pay school fees.	马拉维的中学是需要缴费的
It said a windmill could pump water and generate electricity.	这本书上说风车可以抽水和发电
Another machine pumps water for irrigation.	另一个机器作为抽水机用来灌溉
Maybe one day you will watch this on the Internet.	也许有天你会在网上看到这段视频
We want to know about dynamic things going around.	我们想知道周围的各种动态
But I'm more excited that you can actually take it outside.	我更兴奋的是，可以带到户外去用
But the camera is actually tracking where my fingers are moving.	录像机还在追踪我的手指的移动
Many of you already must have thought, OK, you can browse.	很多人早又想到了，可以浏览
What are you doing with this? Is there a company being planned?	你预备怎么做?你想开个公司吗﹖
Are you going to come back to India with some of this, at some point?	C:你会回到印度做这些计划吗?
India? How are you going to split your time going forward?	印度?未来怎样分配你的时间?
It's great to be here as a mayor.	很荣幸能以市长的身份来到这里。
We had to beat the European monarchy.	我们必须打败欧洲君主--
It's a difficult task to deal with cities.	与城市打交道是困难重重，
We're like every big city in the world.	我们和世界上的每一个大城市一样，
You've got to think green and green.	你会想到一处又一处的绿色。
So moving to our second commandment that I wanted to show you.	接下来我们来看看第二条准则。
But there is a problem.	但是这里存在一个很现实的问题，
You don't have to dig deep down underground.	你不必在地下挖很深的隧道，
You can build nice stations.	而只需要建造一些漂亮的公交车站。
Moving to the third commandment.	下面我们来看一看第三条准则，
All these red parts are favelas.	所有这些红色区域就是贫民窟。
This is a typical view of a favela in Rio.	这是里约最典型的贫民窟。
And this is the kind of change you can get for that.	这种改变是你可以实现的。
We just had last week Carnivale.	我们上周刚刚庆祝完狂欢节。
We have problems with the tropical rains.	我们一直都有热带风暴问题。
It's what we call the Operations Center of Rio.	我们称它为"里约运营中心"。
We're going to speak now to the Operations Center.	我们将与运营中心的人通话。
So how's the weather in Rio now?	所以现在里约的天气怎么样？
Let me get you our weather satellite radar.	让我展示一下气象卫星雷达图。
You see just a little bit of moisture around the city.	你看，城市中就只有一点点水气，
You see, the streets are clear.	您可以看到，街道很畅通。
These are the cars.	解释一下这些汽车的作用。
It was great to have you here.	很高兴你能参加到这次演讲中。
It's whatever moves you personally.	它是那些让你感动的东西。
How can we explain this universality?	我们如何解释这一普世性呢？
I mean fossils, cave paintings and so forth.	我指的是化石、洞穴绘画等等。
It did not evolve for natural survival.	这不是为了自然生存而进化出来的。
It's quite a familiar story.	这是个大家耳熟能详的故事。
It's women who actually push history forward.	实际上是女性推动了历史前进。
He actually used that word.	他事实上用过"美"这个词。
Beauty is nature's way of acting at a distance, so to speak.	可以说美是自然用来间接运作的方式
But, someone might argue, that's natural beauty.	但有人也许会争辩，那是自然美。
Isn't that exhaustively cultural?	那难道不是纯粹的文化影响吗？
They go back about two-and-a-half-million years.	它的历史要追溯到两百五十万年前。
What were these artifacts for?	这些人工制品的用途是什么？
Yes, hairstyling -- I insist on that.	是的，美发--我坚持这点。
Is beauty in the eye of the beholder?	美是存在于观者的眼中么？
No, it's deep in our minds.	不，它深深的在我们的思想中。
Let's talk about a battle space.	让我们聊一个"战斗区域"
A banana peel on the tarmac.	而停机坪上出现了一个香蕉皮~
Here's the way I like to describe it instead.	下面我要描述一下第四代战争
There is no battle space the U.S. Military cannot access.	目前，没有美军不能进入的战斗区域
They said we couldn't do Iraq.	有人说我们不能进入伊拉克
The question is, what do you do with the power?	而问题是，我们怎么使用这样的能力
In that transition space you're mostly hat not enough cattle.	在那个过渡区域你的人手还不够
Which is the truth. It's their oil.	事实上，那确实是他们的石油
But we have trouble accessing our outcomes.	我们在获取成果上也存在问题
We don't do the everything else so well.	但我们对非战争的事情却处理不好
We have a brilliant Secretary of War.	我们有一个出色的"战争部长"
We don't have a Secretary of Everything Else.	我们却没有一个"非战争事务部长"
There is no Secretary of Everything Else.	没有所谓的"非战争事务部长"
We have one for processing economically bankrupt states.	我们有处理经济破产的国家的规则
We argue about it every time we use it.	每次使用它时，我们总在争论
Argentina just went through it, broke a lot of rules.	阿根廷正在实行，打破了许多规则
What would an A to Z system look like?	这个监管系统该是什么样的呢？
They can debate it. They can write it on a piece of paper.	他们会讨论你问题，然后写下来
We don't have anything to translate that will into action.	我们无法将那种意愿转化为行动
Do you want to do it, France?	你想让法国也来这样做么？
And then they turned on us.	然后他们就会站在我们这边了
Why? Because they just got fed up.	为什么？因为他们只是被激怒了
They saw what we did to Saddam.	他们看到了我们队萨达姆做了什么
Check out their agenda since 9/11.	看一下911事件后他们的日程表
You vote according to how much money you put in the kitty.	你再根据你下注的钱数来进行投票
They've been experiencing an identity crisis since the end of the Cold War.	从冷战末期他们就经历着身份危机
The Berlin Wall falls. We do Desert Storm.	柏林墙倒了，我们完成了沙漠风暴
Actually, most of them.	事实上，大多数军人都是如此
So we were home alone for eight years.	所以我们在家里孤独了八年之久
And what did we do home alone?	我们在这八年中做了什么呢？
Bad Pentagon, bad!"	五角大楼那些坏蛋，坏蛋！"
Never how we've sought to interact with the outside world.	我们从来没有试图去与外界互动
I prefer that phrase System Administration.	我更喜欢"系统监管"这个说法
It makes me very popular as well.	同时它也让我现在如此的受欢迎
A Department of War, a Department of Everything Else.	一个战争部门，一个战争之外的部门
That's not our problem now.	现在那已经不是我们的问题了
Now we've got a home game and an away game.	现在我们已经有了主场和客场之分
Because we'd all be gay then.	因为我们那时都将是同性恋
He was a bad guy with multiple priors.	他是个有着多重前科的坏人
Switching back, morning, afternoon, evening, morning, afternoon, evening.	换回去，早、中、晚早、中、晚
Handing out aid, shooting back, handing out aid, shooting back.	给予援助，还击给予援助，还击
You break out that Leviathan Force only every so often.	你频繁地派出"巨轮之力"
I call the Leviathan Force your dad's military.	我把"巨轮之力"称为男人的力量
I call the Sys Admin Force your mom's military.	我把"系统监管"称为女人的力量
The force on the left, up or out.	左边的力量要么使用，要不就不用
The force on the right's going to obliterate it.	而右边的力量就会扫平一切问题
That's where the National Guard's going to be.	那就是国民警卫队要做的事情
Different definitions of network centricity.	二者对网络中心的定义是不同的
Do we need a draft to pull this off?	我们需要预制一个计划么？
I have been to the mountain top. I can see the future.	我已经登顶了，我能看到希望
Who gets custody of the kids?	那么谁来照顾这些孩子们呢？
And this is when they think about beating the crap out of me after the talk.	这正是他们把我的话当成废话的时刻
The Marines are like my West Highland Terrier.	海军陆战队就像我的西高地白梗
I call it the Smart Dust Navy.	我将那时的海军称之为"明智之尘"
Bombers, fighters go over here.	轰炸机，战斗机也要这样走
The point about the trigger-pullers and Special Operations Command.	这是关于步兵和特别行动指挥部的
No off season, these guys are always active.	不需要理由，这些家伙总是很活跃
They drop in, do their business, disappear.	他们介入、做事情，然后消失
This is about being up front with these guys and gals.	而是要让这些孩子们重到最前面
The information you need to do this is not secret.	你做事所需要的信息不是秘密
They said, "Al Qaeda could be listening."	他们说，"基地组织应当听听"
We have already an autonomous vehicle.	我们已经有了辆自动的汽车。
It was an absolutely amazing experience.	这绝对是一个炫酷的体验。
For that, we use an initial measurement unit.	这点，我们使用初始计量元件。
And we also use three laser range finders.	我们还用三个激光测距仪。
Now the first interface is called a DriveGrip.	第一个界面叫做驾驶手柄。
But the problem is these are instructional cue devices.	但是问题是这些是指令暗示装置。
So think of it as a monitor for the blind.	把这个看成盲人的显示器。
So it's actually a multi-dimensional user interface.	这实际就是一个多维的用户界面。
And he's [unclear] following that van that's out in front of him.	他跟随着前方的那辆货车。
Now let's see if Mark avoids it.	让我们看看马克能不能躲开它。
He does. He passes it on the right.	他做到了。他从右侧穿过了它。
He's closing in on the van to make the moving pass.	他接近货车准备超车过去。
Mark's going to give me a ride back to the hotel.	马克等会儿会开车送我回旅馆的。
How are we going to handle insurance?	我们将如何来处理保险呢？
It was at this point that events began to rapidly overtake me.	从此事情发展迅速超出我所能掌控
It was like, "Don't mess with me.	那情形就像说:「别惹我!」
I've got a plastic fork, don't you know?"	「你不知道我有武器吗?」
This type of society is not only possible, it's already on its way.	这种社会不但可能且已逐渐形成
You cannot oppress the people who are not afraid anymore.	无所畏惧之人则不为人所压迫
What lies within us can never be truly colonized, contorted, or taken away.	心灵无法被占据扭曲或夺走
Tell me about you."	「我要听你怎么看待自己!」
It was actually a terrible disaster for Princeton.	但对于普林斯顿而言它却是一场灾难
And I'm interested in searching for life in the universe.	我对于在外太空寻找生命特别感兴趣
It is out in the cold, but it still could have come.	一片冰冷但生命依然会迁至大陆
So they would have to have something like a reptilian skin.	因此它们需要鳞甲般的表皮
And the regular astronomers were scornful about this.	大多数的天文学家对此不以为然
So, the last thing I want to talk about is how to detect it.	我最后将讲一下如何去观测
So these creatures will be bright against the cold surroundings.	它们会成为黑暗背景下的闪亮元素
So as you go further away from the Sun, this becomes more and more powerful.	离太阳越远这样的反光就越强烈
They look like, maybe like sunflowers.	它们也许就长得跟向日葵那样子
That's another wonderful opportunity that's opening.	这也是一个相当诱人的开始
In the long run, of course, it would also make it possible for us to move out there.	从长远来说我们也有机会去到那里
Those are pretty good escapes from the drab weather in Switzerland.	那是避开瑞士枯燥气候的好方法。
Do they need it? Do they want it in their homes?"	他们需要它吗？在家里要它吗？
And then finally, the leaf lamp for Herman Miller.	最后，赫曼米勒的叶子灯。
So, we had to design both the light and the light bulb.	因此我们要同时设计灯和灯泡。
And that's a unique opportunity, I would say, in design.	我认为，这是很特别的设计机会。
It allows the person to switch, and to mix these two colorations.	使用者可以调整、混合这两种色调。
I want to point at something here, on the left.	我要用左边的画面来说明。
So, it's not about slapping skins, anymore, on a technology.	所以它不再是为科技做表皮。
It's really about designing from the inside out.	而真的是由内而外的设计。
And it's what I call being design driven.	这就是我说的"设计驱导"。
This girl is going to school with a laptop on her head.	这个女孩顶着计算机去上学。
I didn't really want to, from the previous adventure.	我不很想做，因为有之前的经历。
They fought the suppliers, they fought the manufacturers.	他们向供货商争取，向制造商争取。
Some of you might have heard about the New York City condom.	或许有人听过纽约安全套。
These are the dispensers. There's this friendly shape.	这些就是配送器。它有亲切的外形。
I mean, they're being installed in homeless clinics -- everywhere.	装在各处的游民保健中心。
Of course, clubs and discos, too.	当然还有俱乐部和迪斯科舞厅。
So, I have more, you can always ask me for some more later.	还有一些，想要可以再找我。
Now fast forward to just three years ago.	但现在，先让我们回到三年前，
Could we have people singing together in real time?	我们的歌手能进行实时演唱吗？
I am interested in how women are saving us.	我对女性如何拯救我们更有兴趣。
And what, if anything, do men have to do with it?	还有，这些跟男人有什么关系？
But you're young, you could still try again."	但是你们都还年轻，还可以试试。"
They took off her colorful sari.	他们把她的五彩莎丽脱去。
They made her wear a white one.	他们逼使她带上一个苍白的莎丽。
Her name is Sakena Yacoobi.	她叫SakenaYacoobi。
She said to me, "It is not about the burka."	她对我说，"这跟布卡没有关系。"
Was a women's rights advocate invoking religion?	一个女权拥护者居然激发宗教信仰？
She is on the Taliban's hit list.	她身居塔利班的打击对象名单。
Liberia had been torn apart by civil strife for decades.	利比里亚长期被内乱弄得四分五裂。
One night, she had a dream.	一天晚上，她做了一个梦。
They were all tired of the fighting.	大家都对这些战争感到很疲惫。
She promised to raise the issue with her community.	她承诺向她的社区提起这件事情。
Layma and her sisters had had enough.	Layma和她的姐妹们忍无可忍。
We know this in India. It's called a [Hindi].	在印度我们把这叫做［印度语］。
The police are called in to physically remove the women.	警察被命令把这些妇女赶离现场。
You can see the policeman's face.	你可以看见那位警察的脸。
He looks embarrassed. He backs away.	他感到不好意思。他开始退后。
And the next thing you know, the police have disappeared.	接着下来，警察们消失了。
And the peace accord was signed.	然后和平协议最终签订了。
And they need allies from their communities.	她们还需要来自她们社区的同盟，
They're challenging the very notion of Western models of development.	她们正挑战这个西方发展模式。
We can use our tradition to navigate change.	我们可以用我们的传统来探索改变。
They could not tell you about the ink of their own love letters.	他们压根不知道什么是手写情书。
But what if it's not about efficiency this time?	但如果说写信无关效率呢？
Now what would this mean, and how would we do it?	这意味什么，我们又可以怎么做？
And this is what we're doing in the lab at the moment.	而这是我们目前在实验室里所做。
You don't need to go to the chemist anymore.	您再也不需要去找化学家。
We can print drugs at point of need.	我们可以打印需要的药品。
We can download new diagnostics.	我们可以下载新的诊断方法。
So this allows you on-the-fly molecular assembly.	这允许您随时进行分子组装。
I left the Kaaba to eat something in downtown Mecca.	我离开克尔白想去麦加市区吃些东西
I headed to the nearest Burger King restaurant.	我走向了一家最近的汉堡王店
Ironic, and it's also, I think, quite telling.	虽然讽刺，我认为也是说的通的
But apparently that was not an issue at the time.	但显然这在当时不是个问题
So the rituals came that way.	因此仪式就像现在看到的样子
There is a practice called female circumcision.	比如有一个习俗叫做"女性割礼"
And quite tellingly, some Muslims do practice that.	一些穆斯林也有这种习俗也很正常
It should be the citizen's decision.	是否戴盖头应该由他们自己选择
And there are strengths in Islamic tradition.	在伊斯兰的传统中有一些优点
You can derive many ideas from that.	你可以看许多观念都有它们的影子
It's our faith, and we will be loyal to it.	那是我们的信仰，我们将忠于它"
And in my book, I went into that question as well.	在我的书中，同样涉及到了这个问题
And actually you don't need to be a rocket scientist to understand that.	事实上你不必像个专家一样精通
They were asking for democracy; they were asking for freedom.	他们要求民主；他们要求自由
Democracy is not an overnight achievement; it's a process.	民主不是一天建立的需要一个过程
This is a thousand-year-old drawing of the brain.	这是一张一千年前关于大脑的绘画
And some things look very familiar today.	有些东西在今天看来也很熟悉
It's gray, formless.	它是灰色的，没有固定形状
But one of the most popular ones involves green fluorescent protein.	最流行的做法之一要用到荧光蛋白
Today I want to talk to you about ethnic conflict and civil war.	今天我想同你们谈谈种族冲突与内战
But this trend is less unambiguous.	但是，这个趋势也不完全清晰
This certainly is an accomplishment that must never be surpassed.	这肯定是个无法超越的进步。
Rather, local leaders committed to revisiting them later on.	结果，当地领袖承诺稍后重新协议
Good news is also about learning the right lesson.	好消息也包括学习正确的教训
But five years ago, I went on a personal journey.	五年前我进行了一次私人旅行。
And one of those I'd like to share with you today.	今天我就想和你分享其中的一个。
Stromatolites are the heroes in my story.	叠层石是我故事里的英雄。
solidifying into surface, molded by fire.	凝固成表面，被火改造成各种形状。
Learn to multiply, thickening in places ...	它们学着繁殖，在那里慢慢变厚。
Growing living structures under an alien sky ...	生命结构就在外星空下形成了。
Stromatolites were the first to exhale oxygen.	叠层石是最先释放氧气的。
It grew as light and oxygen increased.	随着光和氧气的增多它们不断成长。
Forests arose and nurtured things with wings.	森林产生并孕育出生有双翼的东西。
And others fly today like echoes of the past.	今天和其他人一样飞过去的回声。
In birds, life gained new mobility.	鸟类中，生活有了新的流动性。
Birds witnessed the emergence of flowering plants.	鸟类见证了开花植物的出现。
In Africa, Gondwana molded Proteas.	在非洲，山龙眼在冈瓦那大陆出现。
Co-evolution entwined insects and birds and plants forever.	昆虫，鸟类和植物永远协同进化。
When birds can't fly, they become vulnerable.	当鸟不能飞，他们变得脆弱。
Kiwis are, and so are these hawks trapped near Antarctica.	鹬鸵和这些鹰因此被困南极洲。
When the skies cleared, a new world was born.	当天空开朗，一个新的世界诞生了。
New forms became bats. Civets.	新形式成为蝙蝠。果子狸。
Herd safety came with sharpened senses.	羊群为了安全生就了敏锐的感官。
We're molded by the same life force.	我们都是被同样的生命力所塑造。
I think the beautiful Malin [Akerman] put it perfectly.	我觉得美丽的玛琳阿克曼说得很好。
Then one more beer and it was, whatever happened to the mustache?	又喝了一瓶酒，八字胡怎么了？
So my lesson that year was persistence.	所以那一年我的教训就是坚持不懈
Essentially, I'm a mustache farmer.	本质上，我就是一个八字胡农夫
So we thought, why not? Let's do it.	我们便想，为什么不呢？就这么做吧
It wasn't as successful as we thought it would be.	但它没有我们想象中的成功
We hand across our brand and our campaign to those people.	我们把我们的品牌和活动交给他们
And they go, "What, what do you mean?"	他们便会问，"什么，什么意思？"
And I said, "Okay, that's interesting."	我说，"好，这个有意思。"
Your mom would be so proud."	你的妈妈会引以为荣的。"
And I said, "Thank you for doing Movember."	我说道，"谢谢你的参与。"
And that's how we're redefining the research world.	我们就是这样重新定义研究领域
Benki is a leader of the Ashaninka Nation.	本齐是阿沙宁卡部落的领导者。
His people live in Brazil and in Peru.	他的族人生活在巴西和秘鲁。
And he went because he hoped the world would listen.	他希望世界能听他说，他才来。
He's built schools to teach children to care for the forest.	他建了学校教育孩子要保护森林。
We are running out of what we need.	我们正在用尽我们所需的。
We need new models of what it means to be a leader.	我们需要新模式而成为领导者。
That's the second largest population in the world.	在世界上它是第二大人群。
Jianchuan comes from Sichuan Province in southwest China.	樊建川先生来自中国西南的四川省。
Now, just think of the early 1960's in China.	现在想想看中国的1960年代初。
They have drive, passion, commitment.	他们有动力，激情，责任。
They've built bridges, and they've walked across them.	他们架构桥梁，穿行于此。
But we know it doesn't just happen, don't we?	但我们知道它不只是发生，对吗？
I think it has to start with us.	我想就从我们自己开始吧。
We can change the way we see ourselves in the world.	我们能改变我们自身所处的世界。
Yours is illogical.	"你的世界"是你不合逻辑的信仰
And they both laughed.	他们都笑了，彼此认为对方是个傻子
Each one thought that the other was a fool.	他们都笑了，彼此认为对方是个傻子
that's what I thought until I came here."	至少在我攀上顶峰前是这样以为的
Which is right?	两种截然不同的神话，孰对孰错？
It's always about my taste.	与"我个人"的风格品位息息相关
And you can never replicate that performance twice.	你没有办法复制同一次演出
I even was a business consultant, doing strategies and tactics.	甚至做过商业策略方面的顾问
Even if you are Indian, it is not very explicit, it is not very obvious.	即使你是印度人，也不一定完全清楚
You and I, only two.	而平凡如你我，只有两只眼睛
Thank you. Namaste.	而平凡如你我，只有两只眼睛
So the people looking for good jobs are going to fail.	所以想找好工作的人会失败。
I'm not quite sure why you decide not to do it.	我不太确定你为什么决定不去做。
And they are excuses, ladies and gentlemen.	这些都是借口，女士们先生们。
You know, a fine line between madness and genius.	你知道的，疯子和天才一线之隔。
Ah. But I still want a great career.	啊。但是我还是想要成就伟业。
It's the one Mommy and Daddy told me about.	就是爸爸妈妈告诉过我的那个。
But you've managed to talk yourself into that.	但是你还是让自己信了这话。
"Well, I'm interested in this."	"嗯，我对这个感兴趣。"
And what about the rest of humanity's activities?	那其他一切的人类活动呢？
Passion, interest -- it's not the same thing.	热忱，兴趣－不是一回事。
I have a friend, proposed to his sweetie.	我有个朋友，向他女友求婚。
He said to his sweetie, "Let us marry.	他对他女友说，"咱们结婚吧。
Does the word "destiny" scare you?	"命中注定"这个词吓着你么？
Hmm? Look at the worldview you've given yourself.	嗯？看看你给自己定的世界观。
I know what I'm going to do with my life."	我知道我想怎么度过一生。"
I want to perform magic tricks on the stage."	我想在舞台上表演魔术。"
It is because you are — You know what you are.	这是因为你是－你知道你是什么。
You're afraid to look ridiculous.	你害怕自己看起来像个疯子。
Great friend, great spouse, great parent, great career.	好朋友，好伴侣，好父母，伟业。
Fortunately, her lump proved to be benign.	幸运的是，她的肿块是良性的。
Where there is this much legal smoke, there is likely to be some fire.	哪里有硝烟，哪里就有烈火。
And breasts that fall into these two categories are considered dense.	最后两类，是高密度型的。
Think about iPods compared to stereos.	比较一下iPod和立体声音响吧。
It's like the essence of TED.	这其实就类似于TED的精髓了。
This is an image from our first patient.	这是我们第一位病人的造影片。
But with MBI, we use just light, pain-free compression.	但是用MBI，只有轻微的压痛感。
MBI generates four images per breast.	MBI对每个乳房呈现4张图像。
MRI generates over a thousand.	而核磁共振成像则超过1000张。
First, know your density.	第一，了解你的乳腺密度。
That's the kind of power I feel in this room.	这就是我在这个房间里感觉到的能量
What can we do with just one person's data?	用个人信息我们能做什么呢？
What can we do with that guy's data?	用这位先生的信息我们能做什么？
But I'm not actually here to talk about what we can do.	但我来这里不是谈我们能做什么
I'm here to talk about what we should do.	我是来谈谈我们应该做什么
So we can make money?	我们应不应该用这些信息来赚钱？
Let's do a show of hands -- iPhone.	让我们举手表决，支持苹果的
We all know right and wrong, right?	我们知道什么是对，什么是错
And from day to day, we have the techniques that we use.	尤其是当每天新技术都层出不穷
How can we use numbers as the basis for a moral framework?	怎么用数字来建立一个道德框架？
I know a guy who did exactly that.	我知道一个人专门干这个的
A brilliant guy -- he's been dead 2,500 years.	很聪明的人——2500年前就死了
You were sleeping during that class.	在他的教学课上，你可能睡过去了。
And Plato, he had a lot of the same concerns that we did.	柏拉图，他有很多我们有的担心
But he was worried that all we seem to be doing is trading opinions about this.	他担心我们现在做的不过是交换意见
I'm just going back and forth; I'm not getting anywhere.	我只是前瞻后顾，最后还是没结果
In math, we know the objective facts.	在数学中，我们使用客观的事实
Take a number, any number -- two.	比如将一个数字，任何数字——二
That's true no matter what thing you're talking about.	这是真理，不管你讨论的东西是什么
It's an objective truth about the form of two, the abstract form.	这是关于二的客观真理抽象性
What if there were a pure form of justice?	如果真有纯粹的公正，会怎么样？
Aristotle, in particular, he was not amused.	特别是亚里士多德，他就不买帐
Aristotle thought ethics wasn't a lot like math.	亚里士多德认为道德不像是数学
The three people who voted for Mill before are familiar with this.	刚才三个米尔的支持者肯定知道
But here's the way it works.	我还是讲讲这个怎么运作的
It does something intrinsic to the act.	这在根本上决定了我们的行为
It's not like its relation to some abstract form.	看起来和任何抽象的形式有关
That has a very high utility to prevent that damage.	防止这个危害的结果非常有意义
If you feel that way, that's a utilitarian choice.	如果你这么想就是实用主义的选择
But maybe you don't feel that way either.	可能你也并不赞同这个做法
Maybe you think, it's his phone.	可能你会想，这是他的手机
We're right in the thick of it, this philosophical thicket.	我们正在这错综复杂的哲学中间
That's what she called the "banality of evil."	这就是她所谓的"平庸的罪恶"
What did I do? Did I follow my gut?	我做了什么？是随我意愿的么？
Not right now. Wait till I finish talking.	不是现在，等我讲完了之后。
Well that's interesting. That's a different way of thinking.	这很有趣，是另一个角度看问题。
So imagine that right now you went and you found your musician friend.	想像现在你去找个音乐家的朋友
We care what happens in that opera.	我们关心在戏剧里发生了什么
And we certainly care what happens with our technologies.	我们也关心用我们的技术会发生什么
What could be our real needs?	我们真正需要的是什么呢？
Or neither with including complex technology.	这个设计也没有使用复杂的技术
And do not be disturbed any more by the other aggressive sound.	而不会被其他侵略性的声音所吸引
I want to create an object like you and me.	我想创造出一个就像你我一样的设计
And together we improve the original concept.	然后我们一起改进原有的观念
So I turned traditional pills into this.	因此我把普通的药片变成这样
So, you start with the darkest one.	你从颜色最深的一层开始服用
And you are helped to visualize the duration of the treatment.	它帮助你将治疗过程可视化
And you are helped to visualize the decrease of the infection.	同时也帮你将感染痊愈的过程可视化
And you're waiting for recovery as you were waiting for the Christmas day.	你就像等待圣诞节一样等待着康复
And it means, right, you are in the recovery.	这就意味着，对，你处于康复状态
I designed it to help kids to follow the treatment.	我设计它来帮助孩子按疗程治疗
This is, the kids will feel the therapeutic object needs him.	这个孩子会感到这个治疗仪器需要他
And almost a kind of poltergeist effect.	这几乎是一种恶作剧的效果
So it's, for me, a great product.	因此对我来说，这是一个伟大的产品
And I tried to design a kind of canary.	所以我尝试设计一种金丝雀
And in this one, plants are used for the water filtration ability.	它应用了该植物过滤水的功能
And the plants will filter, by the roots, the dirty water of the fish.	这些植物用根来过滤养鱼用的脏水
No, not potatoes, but tomatoes, aromatic plants and so on.	不，不是土豆是西红柿芳香植物等等
So you, like that, can make some sport during your work.	这样你在工作时还可以做一些运动
It really helped me to design it.	它的确帮助了我去设计这个办公室
All of us need to be considered according to our real nature.	我们应该根据自身的本性来看待自己
It contains adult themes, adult language.	其中涉及成人话题及用语。
And so it wasn't really a career.	所以这根本算不上"事业"。
So this is where we enter the picture.	所以我们从这里开始深入。
He's a South Asian -- very dark-skinned South Asian.	他是南亚人--肤色很深。
Makes you wonder about academics, OK?	你们现在对学术研究肯定很好奇吧？
He was held hostage overnight in the stairwell.	他被绑在楼梯间里一个晚上。
So Sudhir went home. Took a shower, took a nap.	Sudhir回到家，洗澡，睡觉。
I've been following them for the last three months.	我已经研究他们三个多月了。
And they made them available to us.	他们给我们看了这些账本。
They get the exclusive property rights to control the drug-selling.	他们独享着售卖毒品的权利。
It's easy to see, by the patterns of consumption they have.	看他们的消费模式，很容易看出
There was very little money in the gang, especially at the bottom.	黑手党没有钱，尤其是底部群体，
This was the best way out.	这是混的最好的一条道路。
Why is it such a bad job?	为什么说这个工作很糟糕？
I think the first one is that they got fooled by history.	第一个原因，他们被历史愚弄了。
That the young people controlled the gang -- that, as you got older, you dropped out of the gang.	年轻人掌控黑帮，老人离开黑帮。
They never passed on any of the wealth.	他们从未给出过一个子儿。
But then, again, sometimes economists get it wrong.	但有时候经济学家会弄错。
The gang leader always got paid, OK?	黑帮头目总是能拿到报酬，对吧？
From freeflying I went on to skysurfing.	从自由式跳伞我又开始空中滑板，
This is a jump I did in Rio de Janeiro.	这是我在里约热内卢的一跳。
You need to have the best possible equipment.	你同样还需要最顶尖的器材。
I think we all might have some questions.	我认为我们都有一些问题。
UE: Nope. It's just smoke.	UE:不是。只不过是烟雾而已。
And is that how you usually fly?	那你平时是不是只戴飞行眼镜？
So you have to be prepared.	所以你必须要戴头盔以防万一。
In the studio we do a lot of experiments.	在工作室我们会做很多的试验
I have occasional meetings with scientists.	我偶尔跟一些科学家们见面。
And I have an academy, a part of the University of Fine Arts in Berlin.	我在柏林美术大学有一个学会。
Do you mind looking, with me, at that little cross in the center there?	请你们看中间的那小十字架。
So just keep looking. Don't mind me.	你们继续看着它。不要理会我。
This is the Tate Modern in London.	这个是伦敦的泰特現代藝術館。
The show was, in a sense, about that.	可以说，展览的目的就是这个。
So look at this. Look at the girl.	你们看这里。看这个女孩儿。
"Oh! That was my foot there!"	"哎，这就是我的脚嘛！"
And the water flows through the city with time.	河流过城市也是需要时间。
Iceland, lower right corner, my favorite place.	冰岛，右下角，我最喜欢得地方。
These kinds of experiments, they filter into architectural models.	这样的试验可以筛选出建筑模型。
It doesn't really tell you what you're looking at.	它也不会告诉你到底在看什么。
The big mountains far away, they move less.	在远处的山，会动得慢一些。
The small mountains in the foreground, they move more.	离你比较近得山，会动得快一些。
Or is that a three-hour hike, or is that a whole day I'm looking at?"	或者三小时，又或者一天的？"
It's very much about the way we link thinking and doing.	关于我们怎么联系想法和做法。
Taking part in the world is really about sharing responsibility.	体验生活其实就意味着担负责任。
That's all I have. Thank you very much.	这就是我想说的。非常感谢。
The Tiburon also uses electric powered thrusters.	蒂伯龙潜艇使用的也是电动推进器。
I think that's got to be scaring a lot of animals away.	我认为它的声音会吓跑很多的动物。
We've only explored about five percent of our ocean.	我们目前只探索了海洋的大约5%。
He should have been with us for this adventure.	他本应和我们一起进行这次冒险。
Taking them off the dead, flat pages.	使他们离开腐朽的，单调的书页，
Bringing them to life, bringing them to light.	给予他们生命，给予他们光明。
everyone that blew my mind this week.	感谢所有在这周启发我的人。
I'll show you how to clap to this song.	我将教你们如何体会这首歌。
Then we showed it in dolphins, and then later in elephants.	海豚和大象都展现了这种能力
They are very different from us in body form.	就形体来说，跟人类就很不一样
I wondered how we might interface with these animals.	我曾思索人类和牠们沟通的可能方式
In the 1980s, I developed an underwater keyboard.	在八十年代，我研发出水底键盘
Sue Savage-Rumbaugh: Can you play a grooming song?	Sue:弹一首抚慰心灵的歌好吗?
Play a real quiet grooming song.	弹一首宁静抚慰的歌给我听
And then I was struck in the history of the Internet.	不过互联网的历史让我灵机一动
So we started up this interspecies Internet project.	于是我们着手跨物种的互联网计划
So we're going to bring you to them.	所以我们要把你们带到牠们面前
And so if we could also have this up, great.	接着…还有画面，太好了!
They're not really used to having cameras here at 8 o'clock at night.	他们不太习惯晚间八点上镜头
In addition, we are very committed to doing different types of research.	此外，我们还致力于不同类型的研究
Just last year, we turned on the production Internet.	就在去年，我们启动了正式版网络
The production version, it uses IP version 6.	正式版用的是因特网通讯协议第6版
We're beginning to explore what it means to communicate with something that isn't just another person.	我们开始探讨与其他物种沟通的意义
Tell me a little bit about where you're going to take the idea.	能否透漏这构想的未来发展?
And very quickly, just to clarify.	可否请你们再简单说明一下
All right, well thank you all so much for joining us.	非常感谢你们今年来到现场
It's such a delight to have you on the stage.	听你们在台上分享，真是太棒了！
And I was like, "What's going on?"	我当时的反应是:"什么情况？"
And now people from Iran are talking to me.	但是现在我竟然在和伊朗人对话
So I'm like, whoa.	我当时觉得，"哇，太惊讶了。"
Because it's working, put me in a poster now.	我的海报引起了人们的关注
It became, you know, at some point it was really, really intense.	一下子做海报的工作量大得惊人
So for a few days, that's how my living room was.	所以那些天我的客厅就是这个样子的
So here are a few of them.	下面我们来看一下我们做的一些海报
They have graphic designers. What?	他们也有平面设计师。不是吧？
So. And now it's communication.	现在，对话渠道已经建立起来了。
And it became really big at some point.	某种意义上这是一个很大的改变。
They said, "Syria?" "Syria."	"包括叙利亚？""有叙利亚。"
"Lebanon?""Lebanon."	"包括黎巴嫩？""有黎巴嫩。"
It's everybody." The Chinese.	"所有人。"包括中国人。
And we were just at the beginning of the story.	而我们的故事才刚刚开始。
You have Lebanon that just -- a few days ago.	几天之前，又出现了黎巴嫩的版本。
We really changed how people see the Middle East.	我们真的改变了人们对中东的看法。
Because you're not in the Middle East.	由于你们并不住在中东地区
It's like, we are showing respect, one to each other.	我们互相表达对对方的尊重，
You can go and travel and meet people.	你可能去旅行，去拜会他们。
Remember that image from the beginning?	还记得一开始的那张海报么？
I know how it can look really bad.	我知道感觉可能会非常的糟糕。
Just raise that. Exactly.	请大家举高一点，很好,就这样。
He triggered the modernist revolution.	他启动了现代主义的革命。
At each meeting, there's way too many ideas.	每次例会都有太多的创意。
Only the best ones can survive.	只有最好那些的才能保留下来。
It doesn't really work in this context.	可能并不适合现有的情形，
And we saw this guy, Haibao.	我们见到了这个家伙，海宝。
And we had the chance to explain the project.	我们也有机会解释这个项目。
So we obviously profoundly agreed with him.	所以我们当然很深刻地表示同意。
Denmark, we have a national bird, the swan.	丹麦，我们有国鸟，天鹅。
The Great Wall is the only thing that can be seen from the moon.	长城是唯一能在月球上看到的东西。
That can actually hardly be seen from the canal tours.	在运河的游览路线中几乎看不见。
And it sort of shows the difference between these two cities.	这也算是体现了两个城市的不同，
Copenhagen, Shanghai, modern, European.	哥本哈根和上海，现代的，欧洲的。
This is how it looks today; all traffic jam.	这是现在的样子，全是交通堵赛。
Bicycles have become forbidden many places.	很多地方禁止通行自行车。
We donate 1,000 bikes to Shanghai.	我们给上海捐了1000辆自行车。
So we can actually hitch a ride for free.	所以我们实际上可以免费搭船。
The first thing, the China map missed Taiwan.	第一条，中国地图少了台湾。
So for the first time, I got invited to speak at the National Parliament.	所以我有生以来第一次到国会发言。
And then at 11 o'clock they stopped talking about these little issues.	11点他们停止讨论这些小问题。
The house is sort of a distortion of a square block.	这个房子是一种方块的变形，
This is our first architectural model.	这是我们第一个建筑模型。
This is an aerial photo taken last summer.	这是去年夏天拍得鸟瞰照片，
And essentially, the apartments cover the parking.	基本上公寓楼覆盖了停车场，
They are accessed through this diagonal elevator.	通过这个斜角的电梯进入停车场。
The wood of your apartment continues outside becoming the facades.	你公寓的树长到外面成为这种立面。
Unfortunately, it was the national bank of Iceland.	不幸的是这是冰岛国家银行。
We quite often make little movies.	我们经常制作这种小电影。
There are 800 million people starving.	全球有八亿人处于饥饿之中；
Two billion people without sanitation.	二十亿人没有基本卫生设施；
The lists go on and on.	这个清单可以一直数下去，
There are many, many problems out there.	这个世界有很多很多的问题。
And that's the question I'd like to ask you.	这就是今天我要问大家的问题。
Where should we start on solving these problems?	我们该从哪个问题着手解决呢？
But that's a wrong problem to ask.	不过，这个问题其实问得不对，
Because we can't solve problems.	因为总有我们解决不了的问题。
What should be at the bottom of the list?	请你也写出哪些项目无须即时处理，
You know, you have a pizza; you've no idea what the price is.	你想要一客薄饼，却不知道售价。
It could be at one dollar; it could be 1,000 dollars.	那可能是一块钱，也可能是一千块，
Likewise in communicable diseases.	同样，在传染病的范畴上，
And then you ask, why economists?	你可能要问，为什么是经济学家？
So this is the list, and this is the one I'd like to share with you.	这就是我想和大家分享的清单，
It's not saying that global warming is not happening.	这不是说全球暖化没有发生，
That would be the third best thing we could do.	那是第三件我们最应做的事。
That would be the second best investment that we could do.	那会是我们能做的第二最佳投资。
And treatment is much, much more expensive than prevention.	因为治疗比预防昂贵得多，
I find a lot of people find it very, very unlikely that we should do that.	我知道很多人都不认同我们的看法。
And of course, we'll be even richer than that.	当然，到时我们也会比现在更富有。
We're actually talking about a fairly rich Dutch guy.	而是一个挺富庶的荷兰人。
The majority of them were, first, from developing countries.	他们大部分来自发展中国家。
We've done this many other times.	这些讨论我们进行了很多次，
They all come out with very much the same list.	他们完成的清单都差不多。
Now this is something that people can see and point to.	这是人们看得到摸得着的事物。
What might that world look like?	这个世界可能变成什么样？
And I suggest that they have two options.	我认为，西方有两个选项。
It's the model that put food on the table.	它是让下一餐有着落的模式。
We can meaningfully put a dent in poverty.	我们可以卓有成效地削弱贫困。
We can see the first part here was designed here by pigs.	我们可以看到第一部分是由猪设计的
This is a very quick overview of all the studies that I looked at.	快速地浏览一下我了解过的研究
Black people are just as happy as white people are.	黑人和白人的幸福感是相同的
We become what we really are interested in.	我们做着我们确实感兴趣的事情
We choose our own profession, and we choose our own partners.	我们自己选择专业领域自己选择伙伴
One of them is to think without pressure.	其中一项是不要带着压力去思考
But also because the content was very close.	当时同样因为内容非常接近
We need to maintain an optimum temperature for the growth.	我们需要维持一个最适宜生长的温度
After about three days, the bubbles will appear on the surface of the liquid.	大约三天后液体表面出现气泡
You don't have to do anything to it; you just literally watch it grow.	你不需要做任何事就看它长就好了
So the color in this jacket is coming purely from green tea.	这件夹克的颜色就是绿茶的颜色
And while you're at it, just form it around this 3D shape."	同时让它绕着这个三维物体塑形"
What excites me about using microbes is their efficiency.	微生物学让我兴奋的是它的高效率
It's absorbing my sweat, and it's feeding on it.	它在吸收我的汗，从中获得养分
Now, this is a conversation that often calls up a lot of guilt.	这个话题时常让我们觉得很内疚。
Just to make money is not enough meaning in life."	赚钱并不是生活全部的意义。"
But how meaningful is this calculation, really?	但说真的，这些计算有任何意义吗？
Their calculations are different.	他们的计算方式是不同的。
Her parents, who are both farmers, looked on, speechless.	她的农民父母看了看，无言以对。
They usually left school when they were in 7th or 8th grade.	他们通常中学就离开学校了。
The Taliban now run their own schools.	塔利班现在有自己的学校，
We've obtained a propaganda video made by the Taliban.	我们得到一卷塔利班制作的宣传片，
Then they teach us to do a suicide attack.	然后他们还教会我们自杀式袭击。
Step five: I believe the Taliban have one of the most effective means of propaganda.	最后一步，也是最有效的宣传武器
Now these children are primed to become suicide bombers.	现在，这些孩子被训练成人体炸弹，
He blew himself up, killing six.	他自己送了命，同时还炸死六个人。
But only if I get permission from my dad.	但要得到父亲的同意才行。
I have laid down my life fighting the infidels."	我用生命来对抗异教徒。"
You can experience their sense of place.	你可以体验一下它们的存在
We can never seem to grasp it in its totality.	我们永远都不能抓住它的整体
We're always sort of small in the face of its expanse.	我们在无限之下显得非常渺小
A squirrel is chewing on your Internet."	有松鼠在咀嚼着你的因特网"
It was unequivocally not something a squirrel could chew on.	它绝然不是一只松鼠可以咀嚼的事
A squirrel had in fact chewed on my Internet.	真的有只松鼠在咀嚼我的因特网
And that connection is an unequivocally physical process.	这样的连接确实是个有形的过程
And in this dimension, they are incredibly small.	从这个角度看他们真的非常小
And they're tiny. They're the thickness of a hair.	它们很细小就像头发那么粗
And then they connect to the continent somewhere.	它们可以连接到大陆的某个地方
It's an intensely, intensely physical process.	这真是个很折腾的物理过程
Then you can see the English engineers looking on.	接着你会看见一个英国工程师在探视
It starts to seem like an incredibly physical thing.	它似乎变成了非常有形的东西
And on the other end of the spectrum, this is a microstructure.	在另一方面还有这些很小些的结构
It's created depositing layers of about four microns.	它每一层的厚度仅有四微米。
So really the resolution is quite incredible.	可做东西的范围是不可思议的
So you can now create one-offs very easily.	你可以很容易地做出一个一次性产品
Again, not buildable in any other way.	这对其他方法来说是不可能的，
And very hard to even create this by hand.	用手来制作也是很困难的。
And it's used by aerospace and automotive.	现在用于航天和汽车工业。
It's a lighter part and it uses less material waste.	它很轻，生产废料也很少。
Brands like Nike are doing it.	像耐克这样的品牌正在这样做。
This is the sort of 3D data that a machine will read.	这是那些打印机能读取的3D数据。
You can direct what color that product will be, perhaps what material.	你可以选你想要的颜色，或者材质。
It's this lamp, as you can see here.	这是一个台灯，你可以看到。
Or we can create very specific prosthetics for that individual.	或者为某人做出特别的假肢。
We all have different preferences, different needs.	我们都有不同的偏好，不同的需求。
I'm going to talk about the power of a word: jihad.	这里我想谈谈词汇的力量。圣战
What is your connection to Osama bin Laden?"	你和奥萨马本拉登什么关系？
What does that mean for us in the West?	这对我们西方来说意味着什么呢？
They're fighting battles over much narrower issues.	他们都是为更小的一些事情而战。
But that doesn't mean that we can relax.	但是这并不意味着我们可以放松
But they have been distracted recently.	但是他们最近已经是散兵游勇。
We know how to fight it now.	因为我们现在知道如何应对。
In reality, it was the beginning of the end for him.	实际上，这是他末日的开始。
He condemned himself to operating on the lunatic fringes of his own community.	他承认自己是本族群的极端份子。
And perhaps, a time will come when they get the rightful credit for it.	也许，终有一天，他们会被歌颂。
Bin Laden is dead. Bin Ladenism has been defeated.	本拉登死了，拉登主义被击败了。
His definition of jihad can now be expunged.	他对圣战的定义现在可以被抹去。
In 2001, her life changed.	在2001年，她的生活改变了。
But she still lives in Mathare Valley.	但是她仍然住在玛萨瑞山谷。
And she said, "What would I miss?	而且她说，"我会想念什么？
I said, "Well what about your dreams?"	我说，"那你的梦想呢？"
I truly believe it's where dignity starts.	我真的相信那就是尊严的开始。
We owe it to the Janes of the world.	我们欠世界上的像简一样的人。
And just as important, we owe it to ourselves.	同样重要，我们欠我们自己。
The idea is actually pretty simple.	这个想法的确是非常简单。
So here's one last thing I'd like to mention.	我这儿想提的最后一件事。
In fact, they're a ton of fun.	事实上，它们的乐趣无穷。
But they're less likely to stick.	但是，它们就不太可能坚持做下来。
Right when I was 15 was when I first got interested in solar energy.	我从15岁开始对太阳能产生兴趣
It was a really big excitement for me to get into Caltech.	能够进入加州理工使我激动不已
So, that's a breakthrough.	恩，这些都是技术上的突破。
And I'll show you what we came up with.	接下来我将展示我们的成果。
It collects about four and a half average hours of sunlight a day.	平均一天四个半小时的收集能力，
We needed to beat solar cells.	需要击败太阳能光电池的这一优点，
So we took a look at another idea.	恩，我们现在看看另外一个想法。
But, his refinements were incredible.	但是，他的改进是非比寻常的。
But they're also very high pressure, so they're dangerous.	由于高压，蒸汽机具有危险性。
That's basically the most fundamental heat engine you could possibly have.	大家能得到的最基本的热机。
So now you put the two things together.	恩现在你能将两样东西放在一块儿。
So, we've been working on this for the last two years.	我们在这上面画了过去两年的时间。
This is how we would envision a residential application.	这是我们开发民用设备的过程。
It's a really good combination of those two factors.	这是非常有利的两个组合因素。
So an example of that is, here's the map of the United States.	这里举个例子，美国的地图。
Right now, solar paybacks are between 30 and 50 years.	现在，回报周期在30-50年。
So that's our real powerful goal that we're really shooting for in the company.	所以那时我们公司的终极目标。
Basically, oil is solar energy concentrate.	本质来讲，石油也是太阳能的聚集。
Thank you very much, you've been a great audience.	非常感谢，谢谢您的听讲。
They are both two branches of the same field of atmospheric science.	它们是大气科学的两个分支
And it takes weeks to perform our integrations.	我们花费数周的时间整合数据
We also fly all over the world looking for this thing.	同时，我们在世界各地搜寻这种物质
This is the tower in the middle of the rainforest, from above.	这就是雨林中的那座塔，这是从上看
We have to get special flight clearance.	此外我们还准备了特殊飞行许可
Who are these people? What are these tribes?	谁是这些人?谁是这些部落?
"Well, Susan, this is a fine mess you are in."	"Susan,这次你糟蹋得真棒"
What is it that we're actually -- what story are we actually telling?	我们到底在讲一些什么样的故事?
Oh my God, you know what?	我的上帝呀,你猜怎么着?
All of the plans for me were already made.	我所有的计划都有人安排好了。
I was placed in a pretty strictly controlled environment.	我被安置在一个高度控制的环境下。
I talk to my mother once in a blue moon on the telephone.	我同我母亲久久才通一次电话聊天。
So, where are the robots?	啊，机器人们都在哪儿呢？
We've been told for 40 years already that they're coming soon.	四十年前人们就说它们很快就要来了
Very soon they'll be doing everything for us.	很快，它们就能为我们做一切事情
Let's see what evolution can do for us.	看看进化论能给我们做些什么。
But this machine doesn't know what it looks like.	但这个机器并不知道自己长啥样
So what have people been doing with this money?	那么，人们在拿这些钱干嘛呢？
Exercises, drills, all over the world.	全世界范围内的演习和训练。
Let's everybody run around and play your role.	所有人都要行动起来发挥作用。
Main result is that there is tremendous confusion.	主要结果是出现了非常混乱的局面。
Nobody knows the chain of command.	没人知道命令下达的途径。
The rest is up to your local community.	剩下的就是地方上的事了。
Everything is about your town, where you live.	所有的事都取决于你所居住的郡。
So here's where the decisions come in.	这就引出了我们下面的结论。
You're the mayor of your local town.	如果你是你们当地那个镇的镇长。
Encouraging telecommuting? What works?	鼓励远程办公吗？什么才有用呢？
Well the British government did a model of telecommuting.	英国政府设计了一个远程办公模式。
And basically the economy would be in a disaster state of affairs.	经济基本处于灾难性的状态中。
The Institute of Medicine tried to look at the masking question.	医学研究所试图研究口罩的问题。
The federal government abdicated most responsibility.	联邦政府放弃了大部分职责。
The second wave was the mutated, super-killer wave.	第二波变异株极具杀伤力。
And in the first wave we had enough healthcare workers.	第一波时我们还有足够的医护人员。
As a nation, no we're not.	作为一个国家来说，我们还没有。
And put the pressure where the pressure needs to be put.	把压力施加在需要施压的地方。
But can you sustain your company that way?	但是你能那样维持你的公司吗？
It's a very complicated ecology.	真是个很复杂的生态学问题。
But we do not completely understand why.	但我们不能完全明白原因。
We have absolutely no idea what that would do.	我们完全不知道后果如何。
What percentage of infected people were killed by it?	感染人群里到底有多大死亡率，、
But we don't really know.	但是事实如何，我们确实不知道。
We've never seen anything even remotely like this before."	我从未见过与之类似的东西。"
The whole immune system swarms into the lungs.	整个免疫系统将集中在肺部。
I've got some of the pieces in my pocket here.	我这儿有几个零件在口袋里。
Last year, I created a one-man show.	去年，我搞了一场个人表演。
Eighteen minutes, clearly impossible.	十八分钟，很明显不可能。
But hey, we're on TED time.	但是我们在用宝贵的TED的时间。
The cards were bigger than my hands.	那时候，纸牌比我的手都大。
Nothing to do with golf.	不是和高尔夫球有关的那个。
They have to be precisely lathed.	它们必须经过精确地车制。
Well I didn't think much of it at the time.	当然，那时的我并没多想。
Anyway, here I was progressing with my new clubs.	总之，我练的杂耍一点点进步着。
And I was trying constantly to bring them back to me.	而我又一直试着让它们重新回来。
So I proudly showed him my clubs.	我很自豪的给他看了我的杂耍棒子。
These are rejects. They are completely out of alignment.	"这些是废品。它们没有被校准。
They are impossible to juggle."	"它们是无法用来杂耍的。"
So I just created the widest tightrope in the world.	就这样，我制造了世上最宽的绳索。
So I cut one rope off.	所以我就剪去了一根绳子。
Intuition is a tool essential in my life.	直觉是我人生中很重要的一个工具。
If not, I will never do that first step.	如果不这样，我绝不会迈出第一步。
All of a sudden the density of the air is no longer the same.	突然，空气密度就跟平常不一样了。
I lift the balancing pole. I approach the edge.	我抬起了平衡杆。我走近边缘。
On one side, a mass of a mountain, a life I know.	一边是一片山群，我熟悉的生命。
Decisively my other foot sets itself onto the cable.	我另一只脚很果断地踏上了绳索。
Faith is what replaces doubt in my dictionary.	信念代替了怀疑在我的字典中。
Well I didn't have that problem.	当然，我那时没这个问题。
Let's see, such as my street juggling, for example.	让我想想，比如说我的街头杂耍。
But this here, this is not the street.	但是我在这，这不是大街上。
You don't want me to juggle, right?	你不想让我表演杂耍，对吧？
So I said, now it's okay. The room is too small.	我就说，没关系。只是房间太小了。
It will go perfectly on the day of the walk.	到了表演那一天一切都会顺利的。
Because all those people were made up of people who, for the most part, considered each other enemies.	因为这些人大多都视彼此为敌人。
So I start the walk. Everything is fine.	我开始了表演。一切都安然无恙。
Now in the meantime, the audience, they go crazy.	在这时，观众人群们都沸腾了。
Now but hold on, I'm not finished.	但先等等，我还没讲完呢。
So I walk, you clap, everybody in unison.	我走着，你们拍手，所有人一起。
The most mysterious part of forests is the upper tree canopy.	树林最神秘的地方是树的树冠部分
They don't have roots that go into trunks nor to the forest floor.	它们没有长在树枝上或丛林地表的根
They have a tremendous capacity for holding on to nutrients and water.	它们有很强的能力锁住营养和水分
So, recolonization is really very slow.	笑所以，重新覆盖真的是非常慢
How can I reconnect people with trees?"	我该如何重新把人和树联系起来
Treetop Barbie is a great example of that.	树顶芭比就是一个很棒的例子
So this whole industry is unsustainable.	所以这个产业是不符合可持续发展的
What can I, as an ecologist, do about that?	那么作为生态学家，我能做什么呢
And they have become excellent partners.	并且他们已经成为很棒的合作者
"Look what they've been hiding from you," he said.	他说"看看家长们在背后藏了什么"
And they made mistakes, too, just like the children.	不但这样，他们也会像孩子一样犯错
And so she set about to make it so.	于是，她开始着手实现这个想法
Well, guess what? I won. Hooray.	但是，你们猜猜？我胜利了。啊哈！
So that's why we're seeing increasingly this demand for access to information.	因此，对获取信息的要求才越来越多
It's the system which underpins all these other systems.	那就是，这个支持其他系统的系统
You know, they're just not going to get it.	这样做的话，是得不到的。
They're not magic. They are not our parents.	没有什么魔法。他们不是我们父母，
Because that is what Julian Assange did.	因为朱利安阿桑奇就这么做了。
You've got to have skepticism and humility.	一，怀疑的态度，二，谦卑的心态。
Skepticism, because you must always be challenging.	怀疑是因为你一直会被挑战。
And humility because we are all human. We all make mistakes.	谦卑是因为我们都是人都会犯错。
At the moment our rights are incredibly weak.	现在我们的权力还十分微弱。
I would like us to work towards that.	我想要大家都向这个方向做出努力。
It was just, "Because I say so.	他只是说"因为我这样说了
They've kidded out the house with CCTV cameras.	他们在房子外面装上闭路相机
Some fairy tales have happy endings. Some don't.	一些童话有美好结局。一些则没有。
I learned two really important things that day.	那天我明白了两件非常重要的事情
I'll get into why that is in just a minute.	等一会我会解释这是为什么
So, I'm just going to show you a basic idea.	我这就给你们展示一些基本的概念
So, basically the gas dissolves into our body.	所以基本上气体会溶解到我们的体内
The problem happens when you start to go underwater.	问题在于当你开始下潜到水下的时候
There're three basic limitations of scuba diving.	水肺潜水有三个基本的限制
It happens because there's too much concentration of oxygen in your body.	罪魁祸首就是体内过高的氧气浓度
So that's the basic concept that we use.	这就是我们所用到的基本设想
But, the theory's relatively easy.	但这一理论只是相对比较容易而已
The tricky part is the implementation.	最有趣的是如何将之变得可行
But, the problem was that it didn't allow us much time.	但问题在于我们的潜水不能进行太久
And, indeed, there is a better way.	而且，事实上，的确有个更好的方法
Two, they allow you to stay underwater longer.	第二，它们能使你在水里待的更久
How is it that they do that?	那么，它们是怎么做到的？
There are three basic systems to a closed- circuit rebreather.	闭路式换气器里有三个基本的系统
The most fundamental of these is called the breathing loop.	其中最重要的称为呼吸环路
So that's the breathing loop in a nutshell.	以上介绍的就是外壳下面的呼吸环
So we need another gas, something to dilute the oxygen with.	所以我们需要另一种气体来稀释氧气
So that's where we get our nitrogen from.	我们的氮气就是从这里来的
The most critical part of a rebreather is the oxygen sensors.	换气器上最重要的部件是氧气传感器
There's a just-unbelievable diversity.	这里的多样性令人难以置信
It's not just fish, either.	而且，并不仅仅是鱼类的多样性
And those fishes that you see right now are new species.	现在你看到的这些鱼类都是新种
RP: Silvertip sharks -- they're actually three species of sharks here.	白边真鲨——这里其实有三种鲨鱼
And this is my favorite line from the article.	这就是里面我最喜欢的一句台词
This one's -- you know, you can see how ugly it is.	这一只，你可以看出长得有多丑
Here's another new angelfish we discovered.	这是我们发现的一种新的天使鱼
And then, eventually, I got around to looking in my bucket.	最后，我终于有时间来看看我的桶
It's really extraordinary to find something like this.	能有这样的发现真的太不寻常了
There are only five to six thousand known species.	已知的物种大约是五千到六千种
Less than 60 seconds after this picture was taken, this guy was dead.	图片拍完后不到一分钟，这个人死了
He had made a very simple mistake.	他只犯了一个很简单的错误
He had an oxygen toxicity seizure and he drowned.	氧中毒的突然发作使他不幸溺死
I call it seeking joy -- this pursuit of happiness.	我称之为寻找快乐——对幸福的追求
You have to balance those two goals.	你必须保持这两个目标的平衡
So, you can't live your life in fear.	所以，你不能在恐惧中生活
But here's what really perplexed me.	但是困扰我的还不是这个。
We only meet them once.	他们在片子里只出现一次。
He built the capital over there.	他在那里建造了一座首都。
We were the first film crew in there.	我们是第一个在那里的摄像团队。
So you'll see images of this remarkable building.	你将看到这座令人叹为观止的建筑。
It took as long as the Taj Mahal.	它和泰姬陵花费了一样长的时间。
So it continued on for many years after he died.	工程在他去世之后又进行了好多年。
You see, only that way you can be able to understand him.	只有这样，你才能够去理解他。
He had an enormous amount of love, he loved everybody.	他相当博爱，他爱每一个人。
But, what if we're not?	但是，如果这不是真的呢？
So, there are many possibilities.	所以一定是有很多可能性的。
But those environments are going to be widely spaced in this universe.	但是这些环境在宇宙中非常的分散。
The first is that problems are inevitable.	第一条是问题是不可避免的。
Let me talk about a relatively small number.	让我来讲些相对小的数字。
We are not the pinnacle of evolution.	我们不是处在进化的顶点。
It's a sense of privilege that the natural universe doesn't share.	这是自然宇宙所不认同的一种特权。
So, we have a fulfillment problem.	这样我们就有了一个实践上的困难。
And, of course, we'd like to inspire and engage the next generation.	当然我们很乐意启发及带动下一代。
They have to dig themselves out every day.	每天他们都得把自己从雪中挖出来。
Each cylinder is a parfait of time.	每个冰柱都是时间的真实记录。
Why do we need to study this anymore?	为什么我们还需要进一步研究它呢？
This process requires extraordinary precautions.	这样的过程需要特别的谨慎预防。
The scientists must insure that the ice is not contaminated.	科学家们必须确保冰层未受到污染。
Imagine juggling a snowball across the tropics.	想象一下夹着雪球穿过热带地区吧。
They work against the clock and against the thermometer.	他们与时间和温差进行着斗争。
Here, the ice seems a living presence.	在这里，冰雪就如同活生生的存在。
It is a voice we should heed.	而这正是我们所需要的嗓音。
And whale oil lit practically every building.	几乎所有建筑燃料都是鲸油。
And after that comes India.	而之后还会有来自印度的竞争。
The point here is, these cars are going to be made super efficient.	关键的一点，这些车都会非常省油。
So that's a very handsome return.	所以这是一个很可观的回报
They make a little net money for the treasury.	它们能为国库产生一些净收益
Again, much cheaper than buying the fuel.	同样，比购买燃料便宜多了
And it turns out that these are quite remarkable for safety.	而事实证明这些都是十分安全的
They snap together like a kid's toy.	它们扣合在一起就像小孩垒积木一样
So you got rid of the body shop.	你就再也不用去汽车修理厂了
Or wait to capture the second half of it.	或者原本只能买到这些量的一半
And Detroit will make money on every unit.	底特律会在每一个环节上创造财富
So this is a huge social win, too.	所以说这是全社会的一个极大胜利。
Then there's an important military role.	军队在接下来的方面起到重要作用
The same for the modern semi-conductor industry.	现代半导体工业也是这样来的。
We are the Saudi Arabia of "nega-barrels."	我们才是沙特阿拉伯的"金主"。
Please download your copy, and thank you very much.	欢迎下载，非常感谢各位。
There's six billion dollars on the table.	譬如说有六百万放在桌上，
So, what is the deal here?	那么，问题的症结在哪里？
Then we formed a spin-off company.	之后我们成立了一家子公司。
There are really two kinds of negative reviews that we've received.	我们确实收到了两种负面的评论。
This is the second day in Rockett's life.	这是罗基特生活的第二天，
And a sense of the choices that are available in their lives.	也是一种对生活中存在选择的感觉。
But we're really, really happy about who they are.	但是，我们真的非常高兴认识他们。
Hitler had two of them, and he didn't have any.	希特勒有两幅，而他一幅也没有
Six weeks into his prison sentence, van Meegeren confessed.	他判刑后的六周后凡‧米格伦认罪了
I painted it myself; I'm a forger."	因为我自己画的，我是个仿画家。"
Well, a good answer is, "It depends. What is it?"	好的答案是，"要看这是什么了？"
Some of you would eat it if it's beef, but not pork.	而有些人则吃牛肉而不吃猪肉
How do you get adults to really enjoy wine?	你怎样让成年人更喜欢葡萄酒？
This was recently done with a neuroscientific twist.	最近有个用神经科学方式的实验
In front of them on a screen is information about the wine.	他们面前是展示酒的信息的屏幕
But that was before she got Capgras syndrome.	但这是在她患替身综合症之前
As a third example, consider consumer products.	第三个例子是关于日常用品
So one reason why you might like something is its utility.	你喜欢一样东西可以是因为它的用处
The shoes are perhaps the most valuable of all.	这双鞋可能是三样里最有价值的
In the case of artwork, the history is special indeed.	对艺术品来说历史意义是特别重要的
And they then reported that her father was coaching her.	然后他们报导出她父亲在教导她作画
She reaches into her purse and hands him a 20.	她从皮包里拿出二十块钱给他
And they gave them a series of painful electric shocks.	然后给他们一系列的疼痛电子刺激
So it was a series of five painful shocks.	那是一系列五次的疼痛刺激
There's no malevolence, they're just pressing a button.	他们没有恶意，只是按一个按钮
The first shock hurts like hell.	第一次的刺激痛的像在地狱
The second shock hurts just as much, and the third and the fourth and the fifth.	第二次一样痛而第三第四和第五次
And nobody really knows what epidemiology is.	没有人真正知道什么是流行病学
So already you can see there are contradictions.	你已经发现了自相矛盾之处
So we know that we need to start unpicking the science behind this.	那么我们就要揭开这些说法一看究竟
That's what happens in academic journals.	这是就学术期刊的评审方法
And nobody minds that. We actively welcome it.	没人会介意，我们反而十分欢迎
She, it turns out, has a non-accredited correspondence course Ph.D.	结果发现她的学历是不知美国哪儿的
This is a headline from the Daily Telegraph in the U.K.	这是英国每日电讯报的头条
So you go and find this paper, and what you find is it is a real piece of science.	你读了报纸会觉得真是科学的
So what we want is studies in real human people.	我们需要的是针对人进行的研究
That doesn't mean that it's the vegetables or the olive oil.	这不意味着是蔬菜或橄榄油的功劳
And everybody thinks they're very familiar with the idea of a trial.	每个人都觉得这是他们熟悉的话题
And this is the trial of fish oil pills.	这就是关于鱼肝油胶囊的试验
The kids got the pills, and then their performance improved.	食用了药片的孩子表现提高了
And of course, also there's the placebo effect.	当然，这里还有安慰效应在起作用
It's about our beliefs and expectations.	而是关乎我们的信念和期待
But that's not the only way you can rig your data.	这还不是操纵数据的唯一手段
And so you're bound to make your new drug look better.	所以你肯定能让新药表现更好
And this is the most important aspect of the whole story.	这是整个过程里最重要的一个方面
So this is a graph of all of the trials that have been done on a particular treatment.	这是针对某项疗法的所有试验图表
And as you go up towards the top of the graph, what you see is each dot is a trial.	图片上部每一个点是一个试验
That's how you can prove it statistically, but what about stories?	这就是统计证明方法那事例法呢？
This is a drug that I myself have prescribed to patients.	我曾给一位病人开过这个药
And I'm a very nerdy doctor.	而我是个超级书呆子的医生
I hope I try to go out of my way to try and read and understand all the literature.	我寄希望于阅读和理解所有文献
Unfortunately, it turned out, that many of these trials were withheld.	但不幸的是很多试验结果被扣留
And they need to have access to all of the trial data.	他们需要所有试验数据的查看权限
This is a problem that is currently lacking a solution.	这个问题目前没有解决方案
But I don't really care about that. Governments don't care about that.	我不关心这个，政府也不关心
So it's a little bit difficult from there to spin in some kind of positive conclusion.	据此想得出些正面结论是有些困难
My students often ask me, "What is sociology?"	我的学生常问我"什么是社会学？"
How can I understand those invisible forces?"	怎样才能理解那些看不见的力量？"
And they built beautiful cities all powered on that coal.	他们靠着煤炭建起了美丽的城市
I saw people struggling to get by, not knowing what was what and what was next.	人们勉强糊口度日无助而没有未来
I mean, come on, I'm not going to turn down my thermostat.	你可别指望我调低我家暖气的温度
And so I get angry, and I get pissed, as do lots of average people.	于是我火了气愤了大多数人都会
And the Chinese respond in a very ugly way.	中国的回应方式也很不友好
Can you imagine what you would feel if you were in my shoes?	你能换位思考想象我的感受吗？
You've left your shoes, and you've stood in mine.	你从自己的立场转换到我的立场
Now we're going to have the real radical experiment.	现在我们就要开始真正激进的试验
And sometimes you even watch satellite, CNN, from the United States.	有时候还看看卫星电视美国的CNN
So you have a sense of what the Americans are thinking.	你大概知道美国人的一般观点
You're Arab Muslim living in Iraq.	你是住在伊拉克的阿拉伯穆斯林
Let me help you with some things that you might be thinking.	让我来帮你整理一下你的思绪
And you know why they have a design?	他们为什么要打这个算盘？
And they have big cities, and the cities are all dependent on oil.	美国有大都市这些大都市都依靠石油
Something else you see that you talk about -- Americans don't talk about this, but you do.	这些你谈论的话题美国人并不谈起
There's this thing, this militarization of the world, and it's centered right in the United States.	比如，世界的军事化是以美国为中心
And you feel it; you see it every day.	你每天都能看到感受到这些
Not a single person in your country has not been touched.	你的国家里无一个人可置身事外
And what do you see? They're Christians.	你发现了吗，他们是基督徒
They don't know anything about him, but you do.	他们对他一无所知，但你知道
Man, the Americans, they're just like, "Ah, crusade.	美国人一听，"哦，圣战啊
Because in the context of everything else, all the pieces fit.	因为在那个环境下这说辞十分有道理
"He wants to burn Korans, our holy book.	"他要烧了我们的圣经古兰经
For you, this is like all Christians.	对你来说这就代表了所有基督徒
It's all over the Web, Bible Boot Camp.	网上铺天盖地都是，圣经训练营
They're my students, my friends.	他们是我的学生，我的朋友
When you see them, they're something else, they're something else.	你看到他们就变成了别的什么
We don't see it that way in the United States, but you see it that way.	在美国我们不这么看但是你会
You're generalizing. It's wrong.	你一般化了你的推理，你错了
Of course you don't. Very few people do.	你当然不，很少有人支持暴力
Let's go back to my first example of the Chinese.	就是回到第一个中国的例子
And the soldiers are Chinese, and everybody else is Chinese.	士兵都是中国人其他也是中国人
What are you feeling and thinking about this photo, about this woman?	你对这张照片的和这个女人有何看法
Okay, now follow me on this, because I'm taking a big risk here.	好的现在跟着我因为我在冒很大的险
These gentlemen here, they're insurgents.	这两名男子，他们是叛乱分子
They were caught by the American soldiers, trying to kill Americans.	他们要杀美国士兵被抓住了
And maybe they succeeded. Maybe they succeeded.	也许他们成功了，也许没有
Are they brutal killers or patriotic defenders?	他们是野蛮的杀手亦或是爱国者？
I'm going out to defend your freedom, your lives.	我要去保护你的自由，你的生命。
Why would you use this example of all examples?"	为什么要用这两个例子？"
You're allowed to just hate them with every fiber of your being.	你可以用全身每一点力气去恨他们
Whatever it is, you can go so far.	不管是什么，你能运用换位思考
And suddenly all these tiny, little worlds, they come together in this complex web.	最终这些小世界就会交织成一张大网
And they build a big, complex world.	他们构成了一个巨大的复杂的世界
Everything in your life has changed.	你生命里的每一件事都变了
And now perhaps -- perhaps -- you do too.	也许，也许，现在你也可以了
What would you have predicted, not knowing this?	不知道这些情况,你会怎样预测呢?
Our lives depend upon these creatures.	我们的生命依赖于这些生物
Each has persisted for thousands to millions of years.	它们都在地球上存活了千百万年
And so it is everywhere one looks.	这一现象在世界各地都在发生
The second is for continued population, human population expansion.	第二个是指持续的人口增长
We urgently need to change this.	我们必须尽快改变这一现状
And let us call it the "Encyclopedia of Life."	不妨将此项目称为"生命百科"
Working together, we can make this real.	携手合作，我们就可以实现目标
That is my wish. Thank you.	这就是我的愿望。谢谢大家。
Now, extinction is a different kind of death.	目前，灭种是另一种形式的死亡
Well, commercial hunting happened.	嗯，是因为商业狩猎的开始
It was the cheapest source of protein in America.	牠们曾是美洲最便宜的蛋白质来源
It was hunted to death for its feathers.	因为牠自身华美的羽毛而被猎捕致死
It's kind of like an evolution machine.	这项技术和演化的机制类似
Some of these conservation biologists are pretty radical.	其中一些保育生物学家非常激进
Alberto worked with the bucardo in Spain.	阿贝图在西班牙研究布卡多山羊
It was the first de-extinction in history.	这是历史上第一个反灭绝的实例
He showed how all of this can be put together.	他展示了如何让这些技术衔接在一起
You see, you want to work on protecting the animals out there.	你必须保护还存活着的动物
Captive breeding will be a major part of bringing back these species.	人工繁殖培育是复育生物的重要环节
The California condor was down to 22 birds in 1987.	加州神鹫在1987年仅剩22只
That technology will be used on de-extincted animals.	这项技术会被用在反灭绝复育的物种
Another success story is the mountain gorilla in Central Africa.	另外一个成功的故事是中非的巨猩
That's how comfortable these wild gorillas are with visitors.	野生巨猩在游客前面显得多么自在
There's no breeding pairs left.	他们已经没有能生育的配对了
A bit of cloning, you can get them back.	只要做个复制，你就能把他们救回来
So where do we go from here?	所以我们未来的方向是什么？
I think it's time for the subject to go public.	我觉得应该让大众了解到这个议题
You know, do you want extinct species back?	你们会想要让就回灭绝动物吗？
Tinker Bell is going to come fluttering down.	彼得潘的小叮当已经翩翩降临
So, this is an emotional topic. Some people stand.	这是个感性的话题。有人支持
So I use my imagination as my full-time job.	想象力，因此贯穿我工作的始终
My favorite page is the "About the author" page.	我最爱的一页是"关于作者"页
So how did I make friends?	你问我这样怎么交到朋友的？
Just stop drawing in my class."	但以后别在我的课上画画了啊。"
So my parents never found out about it.	因此我的父母从不知道这件事情
The kid had no patience for him.	这小孩对它一点耐心也没有。
I set up a studio and I tried to get published.	创立了一个工作室，试图出版那些书
So the next week I "happened" to be in New York.	于是下一周我"正好"出现在纽约
And my local paper celebrated the news.	当地的报纸还报导庆祝了这事。
And then something happened that changed my life.	后来发生了件改变了我人生的事情
You know? You only get one birthday per year.	想想看你一年就只有一次生日
Lunch ladies treat me really well.	还有对我很好的午餐女士们
That's true. You are alive, and that's pretty good right now.	的确。您还活着，而且状况不错。
It's time to start designing for our ears.	是时候为我们的听觉感官设计了。
And it's not just our quality of life which suffers.	不只我们的生活素质受影响，
How does this work? Well, two ways.	这是怎么发生的?有两个原因。
Spaces tend to include noise and acoustics.	空间包括噪音及传声效果。
A room like this has acoustics, this one very good acoustics.	像这样的房间有很好的传声效果，
Many rooms are not so good.	很多的房间却没有这么好。
Hospital sound is getting worse all the time.	医院正在变得愈来愈嘈杂，
And the quality of sleep is degraded, and so is our recovery.	睡眠素质和康复速度都会因此下降。
This is an area I intend to take on this year.	这是我今年打算研究的一个领域。
It's not just these modern buildings which suffer.	不只新派设计有这方面的问题，
All that changed was the acoustics of the classroom in those two examples.	变化的只是教室的传声效果。
It's not just the children who are affected, though.	然而受影响的不单是孩子。
It's time to start designing for the ears.	是时候为听觉感官而设计了！
We've been working together since, well, since we were kids, really.	从童年开始，我们就在一起工作
Which brought us to this.	这种想法给了我们这个作品
And our ability to imagine is what makes us explorers.	想象使我们成为了探险家。
Go from one world to another in a second.	瞬间从一个世界转向下一个。
The use of animation and projection was a process of discovery.	使用动画和投影仪是个探索的过程。
There are no special effects in "Upwake," no artifice.	在"觉醒"中没有特效，没有特技。
It's as though you made something resonate within them.	就像是你与他们产生了某种共鸣。
I've worked as a doctor clown in a hospital for two years.	我扮作医生在医院里工作了两年。
I know theater unites us.	我知道戏剧把我们结合在一起。
Comic books. Quantum physics video games.	漫画书，量子物理的视频游戏。
It's visual. It's musical. It's sensorial.	是视觉的、音乐的、感觉的。
In the science of today, we become artists.	在科学的今天，我们成为艺术家。
In the art of today, we become scientists.	在艺术的今天，我们成为科学家。
We teach, touch and move.	我们教授着，接触着并前进着
And how many people have actually seen a live pig producing this meat?	那么，有多少人见过一头活的肉猪？
A lot goes to the U.K., Germany.	相当一部分出口到英国，德国。
And I spent about three years researching.	于是，我用了三年时间来调查。
You probably start the day with a shower.	你可能起床之后会洗个澡。
So, this is actually a healthier cigarette.	因此，这是一种更有益健康的香烟。
And can you send me a bullet?"	您可以给我寄来一颗子弹吗？"
And well, I didn't expect them to even answer my email.	我可没指望他们会给我回音。
Are you in anyway related to the Dutch government?"	请问您跟荷兰政府有什么关系吗？"
And the makers of this thing were really enthusiastic.	这个产品的制造商非常热心。
And we know why kids drop out.	我们知道孩子们为什么掉队辍学。
We know why kids don't learn.	我们知道孩子们为什么学不下去。
For years, I have watched people teach.	这么多年，我都在看人们怎么教学。
She said, "That's just a bunch of hooey."	她接着说，"一派胡言。"
And I got back and looked at that teacher edition.	然后我下了课，翻看了教师用书。
One year I came up with a bright idea.	有一年我有了一个非常好的主意。
One of the students said, "Really?"	一个学生说，"真的吗？"
I said, "Because you're on a roll.	我说，"因为你正渐入佳境。
You got two right. You didn't miss them all."	你没有全错，还对了两个。"
You see, "-18" sucks all the life out of you.	大家看，"－18"让人感觉想死。
And kids can be cruel.	而孩子们有时也是比较"残忍"的。
Teaching and learning should bring joy.	教学和学习应该是让人愉快的事情。
We can do this. We're educators.	我们可以的，因为我们是教育家。
We're born to make a difference.	我们天生就是重塑他人的。
The problem is, which verbs go in which constructions?	问题在于，哪个动词用于哪个构式？
For example, the dative construction in English.	比如，英语中的与格构式--
Unfortunately, there appear to be idiosyncratic exceptions.	不幸的是，这方面有例外。
How are these construals reflected in language?	这些理解如何反应在语言当中？
So why should anyone care?	那为什么有人要在乎这工作呢？
"The messenger went from Paris to Istanbul."	"信使从巴黎去了伊斯坦布尔。"
You can also say, "Biff went from sick to well."	你也可以说，"比夫从病中康复。
And I'll start out with a puzzle, the puzzle of indirect speech acts.	我要从间接话语行为这个谜题开始
This kind of indirect speech is rampant in language.	这种间接表意在语言中泛滥
I think most people understand the intent behind that.	我想大多数人理解这么说的意图
Well, what does this have to do with language?	这个和语言有什么关系呢？
The simplest example of this is in the polite request.	最简单的例子出自于礼貌的要求
So you get the best of both worlds.	不过你两种可能中都受益最大化了
But I also like to think a lot about arguing.	但是我也经常思考有关辩论的问题。
Yeah, we have those arguments too.	当然，我们也会为那些问题争论。
But those aren't the important arguments.	当时那些辩论没有那么重要。
So why do we even try to argue?	所以我们为什么会想去辩论？
Does the conclusion follow from the premises?	我们的结论是否由前提推导出来？
You can take a class in logic, argumentation.	你可以去上关于逻辑与辩论的课程。
Suppose you and I have an argument.	比如说，你和我进行了一场辩论。
You believe a proposition, P, and I don't.	你主张观点，P，但是我不同意。
And there's something wrong with that picture.	这个认识本身存在一些错误。
And that's the picture I really want to change if we can.	同时我也想去改变这个认识。
There's no magic wand that's going to make it disappear.	我们没有办法就这样让他消失不见。
There's the reasoner in arguments as proofs.	在证明式论证中我们需要推理者。
Can you do that? I think you can.	你能做到吗？我觉得你能。
Now, I lose a lot of arguments.	现在，我输掉了很多辩论。
And so we're in a skull, and we're moving really, really quickly.	我们划着小船，划得非常非常快。
And some of them were very resistant, actually, to being there.	他们当中有些人其实很不想去。
Why don't they just keep on going?	贝壳为什么不会一直生长下去？
It literally adheres to the growing face of the crystal.	蛋白质会吸附在结晶生长的那一面。
We're done. You know, I've seen that island.	"好了，这个岛看过了。"
That's the profound switch.	这是一个意义深刻的转变。
The plane you came in, cars, the seats that you're sitting on.	大家搭的飞机、汽车、坐的椅子
What's the syllabus?	我们的课程大纲该是什麽？
Three questions, for me, are key.	对我来说，有三个问题是关键。
I'm going to try to go through 12, really quickly.	下面我会很快地带过12个重点。
One that's exciting to me is self-assembly.	好，我很有兴趣的是自我组装。
And there's many of them, all over its entire body.	阳隧足全身布满了这些镜片。
What's interesting, again, is that it self-assembles.	有趣的是，这也是自我组装的产物。
That's a ball of water, and those are dirt particles.	这是一个水滴，这些是灰尘颗粒。
And that's an up-close picture of a lotus leaf.	这是一张莲叶的特写照片。
Here are two organisms that pull water.	这里有两种生物能够收集水。
Separation technologies are going to be extremely important.	分离科技将会变得非常重要。
What if we were to say, no more hard rock mining?	如果有一天，我们不必再挖掘採矿？
And we use all of them, even the toxic ones.	而我们则是全部都用，有毒的也用。
That little guy over there is a tardigrade.	那边那个小傢伙属于缓步动物门。
They can be put in a glove compartment, OK.	放在汽车前座的置物箱也没问题。
JB: OK, put this -- OK, I'll just hold this thing. OK, great.	好，戴上—好，我拿着就好。
OK, so that's the healing one.	好，太棒了。好，刚刚讲到医疗。
That means, you know, net fertility farming.	这意味着，能增加土地富饶的农业。
And really, that's what other organisms do as well.	这其实也是其他生物在做的事。
Our farming has done the opposite.	但是我们的农业却是逆道而行。
And we don't invest in what's invisible to us.	我们不会投资我们看不见的东西。
But this is the face of resilience.	而这张面孔上写着坚韧不拔。
And that turned out to be women.	结果我选择了女性为故事主题。
But they had hustled to feed their kids and pay their rent.	她们为喂养孩子交房租而忙碌着。
And that's really how I became an entrepreneur."	我就是这样成为一名企业家的。"
Because we aim low and we think small when it comes to women.	因为我们对女性的期望低小看她们，
The great news is we already know what works.	好在我们知道哪些做法是有效的。
Theory and empirical evidence Have already taught us.	理论与实证都教会了我们怎么做。
So the great news is this is an incredible opportunity.	所幸的是这是一个绝好的机会。
We have so much room to grow.	我们有着极大的成长空间。
Now that makes me pause for just a couple reasons.	听到这话我停下来想了想。
and all around the world are not exceptions.	世界各个角落的女性都不是特例。
We are not a special interest group.	我们不是一个特殊利益群体。
And it is time for all of us to think bigger.	我们从现在开始高瞻远瞩吧
Ladies and gentlemen, gather around.	先生们女士们大家都围坐过来
Once upon a time in 19th century Germany, there was the book.	很久很久以前19世纪的德国有本书
Now during this time, the book was the king of storytelling.	那时候这是故事书中的王者
His name was Lothar, Lothar Meggendorfer.	他叫罗萨罗萨･梅根多尔弗尔
This man refused to fold to the conventions of normalcy and just decided to fold.	他决意不走寻常路他折起了纸
And things got a lot more fun when the Internet came around.	互联网的问世则带来了更多的乐趣
And so I have to figure this out for myself.	所以我只能自己找寻答案。
The answer to this can be found in embodied energy.	这个答案能从内蕴能量中找到。
This is now operating energy.	现在我要说的是操作能量。
Well, now a paper towel looks better.	恩，现在一张纸巾看起来好多了。
That's what my husband and I are doing right now.	那正是我和我丈夫正在做的事。
We wanted to know how much better we could do.	我们想知道我怎么能做的更好。
So first, we demolish it.	第一，我们先消减一部分。
We then go on to the first thing that was very surprising.	我们之后发现一件惊奇的事。
Clearly, I need to walk home from TED.	显然，我需要从TED走路回家。
Any of you get really freaked out by that?	是不是认为那片子太过离奇了？
We gotta kill them because they're making a mess.	否则我们就不会有好日子过。
And he said that was impossible.	他丢给我一句"那不可能"。
We're seeing a population boom with crows.	乌鸦这个种群也在经历同样的发展。
But the researchers had a problem.	但是研究者们遇到了一个问题。
So she adapted.	于是它想出了一个新法子。
But she did it all on her own.	这完全是它自己想出来的办法。
So keep in mind that she's never seen this done.	请一定记得它以前从没有学过的哦。
It's pretty annoying for the fishermen.	这可是搞得那里的渔人很烦恼。
It's fairly interesting.	这真是令人哑然的一件事。
The problem now is collecting the bits, without getting run over.	然后飞走，等待汽车开过。
Wait for the light to stop the traffic.	之后它们在马路边等待绿灯，
Come back, look for the peanut, go away.	隔天再来，又是没有，又跑回去。
So, they poke at it and peck at it and whatnot.	它们又是用头撞，又是用嘴咬。
And then, we're off to the races.	它们发现了怎么吃得上花生了！
"Oh, let me kind of tell you a funny little play bit.	哦，我来说一个好玩的事。
And these trains are smooth, and they're quiet and they're efficient.	它们行车平稳。它们安静且高效。
Now we have humans imitating robots.	而现在是人类模仿机器人。
And so suddenly they're looking at me.	突然之间，所有人看着我。
You know, you see, you've got to question the official truth.	你瞧，我们必须质疑这个真理。
And that's Studs Terkel.	这就是StudsTerkel。
And I got this in the Maryland Correctional Institute for Women.	来自于马里兰女性教养所。
Everything I do is word for word off a tape.	我做的事情就是一字不漏的录下来。
I didn't even go and see what was happening.	我甚至没有去看看到底发生了什么。
I just sat there and listened.	我只是坐在那里，然后听着。
Her face was bruised. She had a black eye.	她的脸淤青。眼睛黑黑的。
And he just laid her right on the shoulder of the highway.	发现他把她正好摆在路肩那里。
They did not, so there were riots.	但是他们没有，于是就引发了暴乱。
"I used to believe America was the best.	我曾经相信美国是最好的。
Why? Why do we have to be left out?	为什么？为什么我们被抛弃？
I wish that I could live together with black people.	我希望我可以和黑人们生活在一起。
But after the riot, it's too much difference.	但是暴乱之后，一切都大不一样了。
The fire is still there. How do you say it? [Unclear].	大火还在那里。你怎么看？
Mrs. Young-Soon Han.	Young-SoonHan女士。
Well, you know, I guess that'd have to be the rodeo too.	噢，你知道，我想应该还是竞技吧。
And Electrolux was going to go to Mexico.	而伊莱克斯打算将工厂迁到墨西哥。
In fact, they did implode the factory.	事实上，他们确实炸掉了工厂。
I went from high school to factory.	从高中毕业起我就来在这上班。
"My grandfather worked at this factory.	"我的祖父也曾在这工作。
All I know is how to make refrigerators."	我只知道如何组装电冰箱。"
We got a problem, folks.	我们遇到了问题，朋友们。
So it got me thinking, what is it?	所以这让我思考问题到底出在哪里？
Why not ask all of the states to do that instead?	为什么不直接让各州这样做？
Congress putting four and a half billion dollars on the table?	国会能通过45亿美元的议案吗？
They can't agree to anything."	他们不能就任何事达成一致。"
They can make some educated guesses.	他们可以做一些学识方面的推测。
It had been presumed before.	以前我们的喜好都是被假定的。
That would tell me something more substantial about you.	这会让我加深对你的了解。
I can't wait to find out what it looks like.	我迫不及待地想知道这远景的样子。
They rock the mic outside my window every morning.	它们每早都在我的窗口大展歌喉
I can hear them sing the sounds of the car alarms like they were songs of spring.	它们把汽车鸣笛声唱的宛如春之颂
I'll get that lady at the laundromat who always seems to know what being nice is.	我会记下洗衣店里不知好歹的女士
I'll get your postman making dinner plans.	我会记下计划晚餐食谱的邮递员
I'll get everyone's good mornings.	我会记录下每个人的早晨问候
What does a violin have to do with technology?	小提琴和科技有什么关系？
We are 12 billion light years from the edge.	我们离宇宙的边际有120亿光年
Wait for the man with the mockingbird."	等那个拥有嘲鸟的男人。"
Orgasm is a reflex of the autonomic nervous system.	性高潮是自主神经系统的反射作用。
There is such a thing as a knee orgasm in the literature.	文献中还有记载过"膝盖高潮"
She was part of a study at Rutgers University.	她是罗格斯大学研究计划的一部分
You gotta love that. Rutgers.	研究人员一定会喜欢我这个采访的。
So I interviewed her in Oakland, in a sushi restaurant.	我在奥克兰一家寿司店和她会面
It was remarkable. It took about one minute.	真的是难以置信。总共一分钟左右。
I said to her, "You should do an experiment.	我对她说，"你该做做这个实验，
I said, "You should actually do this."	我说，"你该做这项实验"
Theodoor van de Velde was something of a semen connoisseur.	西奥多范德威尔德倒是个精液鉴赏家
Very heavy hetero guy.	他可是异性恋的铁杆主张者
And lo and behold, the hiccups went away.	这是奇迹发生了，打嗝停止了
You can use flour and water, or cornstarch and water.	面粉加水，或玉米淀粉加水
Why don't you have the farmers do that?	为什么我让农民这样做那？
They tend to -- pigs, for example, are more like dogs.	猪呢，打个比方，更像狗，
So you're not really sure what's going on with the pig.	所以，你也不能准确的把握猪的感受
This is the ejaculation face of the stump-tailed macaque.	这是藏酋猴射精时的面部表情
Okay, with women, a lot of this is happening inside.	对女性来说，这些反应都发生在体内
They developed an artificial coition machine.	他们研制出一种仿真交媾仪
That is what they would do. Pretty amazing.	他们就是用这种方法，听惊人的
Sadly, this device has been dismantled.	可惜的是，这仪器被拆毁了
This was not idle curiosity.	这可并非单为满足奇思怪想
From all outward appearances, John had everything going for him.	从所有的表象上约翰是事事顺心的
Now I know that seems ludicrous.	现在我知道这看似有些可笑
And what happened to me was I bought, what was for me, a very expensive pair of shoes.	当时，我给自己买了一双很贵的鞋
This is a stronger knot. It will come untied less often.	这就是更牢固的打结，不会轻易松开
There it is: the strong form of the shoe knot.	这样就完成了，鞋带的牢固系法
First of all, I have to say I'm not from around here.	首先﹐我必须说我不是来自这里
But don't worry -- I don't have trouble with English, as such.	但不用担心-美语对我来说没问题
So I've been asked by the organizers to read from my book.	大会要求我到这里来朗读我的书
Yeah. And I think he looks now less miserable.	我觉得他现在看起来没这么悲惨了
It's actually a simple one, but it's a good one to start with.	从一个非常简单的例子开始
So I mean, that's just tidying up for beginners.	不过那只是初级的整理罢了
I mean, you see, everything seems to have been scattered aimlessly around the space.	所有东西都被随意的扔到这个空间里
So I'd like to -- I wanted to reintroduce some structure into that picture.	于是-让我来规范整理这张图画
We are only happy when things are in order.	一切井井有条的时候我们才会快乐
I'm not sure myself what it means but it sounds good anyway.	连我自己都不太懂﹐至少听起来不错
Everyone is sitting in quite an orderly fashion here this morning.	在座的每个人都坐的很整齐
So we can also see that very clearly in this next painting.	我们可以从以下的例子里看到
That's a picture by Keith Haring.	这是KeithHaring的作品
One can obviously also make combinations.	你也可以把它们组合在一起
And I think the whole thing adds up much better if you do it like this.	把这些都加起来﹐你就可以这样做
You know, there is a -- I'm always being asked what inspired me to embark on all this.	你看很多人问我是什么让我这样做的
Like books, clothes, toothbrush, etc. And it was great.	书﹐衣服﹐牙刷等等﹐很不错
By the time I returned everything had always been neatly returned to its place.	我每次回房间的时候一切都回归原位
And when I returned it looked like this.	当我回来的时候﹐它变成了这样
That's how it looks like when you send everyone home.	你把每个人赶回家以后就变成这样
Of course, they're not gone. They're all here.	当然﹐他们还在。他们全在这里
So I'm -- yeah, actually I'm kind of finished at that moment.	嗯好﹐我差不多已经讲完了
Here -- that's just my new proposal here for the Union Jack.	你看﹐英国国旗可以变成这样
yeah, I think, after you have seen that I have to leave anyway.	我是说﹐我想我最好赶快离开
You know, "Design -- bad design, there's just no excuse for it.	你懂的，你不能为差的设计找借口。
It's letting stuff happen without thinking about it.	这是轻率地放任事情发生的后果。
Every object should be about something, John.	所有物品都必须有意义，约翰。
It should imagine a user.	它必须以用户的角度为出发点。
And design was in everything my dad did.	而设计就是我父亲工作的全部。
"Doing that, acting by design, is what we all should be doing.	"设计，就是我们实现它的方式。
It's where we all belong."	设计就是我们的最终答案。"
Oh, oh, Dad. Oh, Dad.	噢，噢，爸爸，噢，爸爸。
Well, let's hold on to that thought for just a minute.	好，让我们停在这一会儿。
It's kind of like this wheelchair I'm in, right?	这就像我坐的轮椅，对么？
He can't walk. Anybody know the story?	他不能走路。有谁知道这个故事？
I roll swiftly through an airport, right?	我在机场快速的滚动，好？
I guess they're for safety, right?"	我猜这样为了更安全，对吧？"
The difference is intent.	不同的地方在于设计意图。
Intent changes the picture completely.	设计目的完全改变了人的感受。
He's the breath of some primitive, ancient chaos.	他是某种原始，古老混乱的产物。
He's something very, very different.	他是某种非常非常复杂的人。
It's as though intent is an essential component for humanity.	目的是人性中非常重要的一环。
Let me tell you, some of you may have the experience.	让我告诉你，你也许有这样的经验。
"No need for birth control, Doc, are you sure about that?"	"医生，你确定我不用避孕吗？"
"John, John, I looked at your chart.	"约翰，约翰，我看了你的病例。
I wasn't exactly a form of birth control.	我的身体并没有避孕功能。
Look at that font there. My wife was so pissed.	看那个字。我太太气坏了。
No, I don't think a designer did come up with that.	不，我不认为设计师这个意图。
In fact, maybe that's the problem.	事实上，也许那时故意为之的。
We're five now. Five.	我们现在有五个了。五个。
We're really hoping he thanks us for that later on.	我们真希望他以后能感谢我们
All of a sudden, human existence needed an intent.	突然，人类存在一种对意图的需要
Human life needed a reason.	人类的生活需要一个原由。
Reality itself needed a designer.	现实本身需要一个设计师。
Gods we're still fighting about. Oh yeah.	我们仍然和神在抗争。我的老天。
And we can't just imitate the past. No.	我们不能仅仅模仿过去。不。
There was rioting in the middle of Kinshasa.	当时在金沙萨的中部发生暴乱
People were carrying off vehicles, carrying off pieces of buildings.	人们在车中，和建筑物中都会丧命
I was in a wheelchair; I didn't look like a looter.	我坐在轮椅，完全不像抢劫者。
He goes, "Hey, mister! Mister!"	他过来了，"嗨，先生！先生！"
We sat there and compared wheels and tires and spokes and tubes.	我们坐在并排那里轮子辐条管子对齐
I wish I could show you that contraption.	我真想向你展示那个精巧的设计
He would have loved those! Oh yeah.	他一定会爱上那些的！噢呀！
Design blew it all away for a moment.	设计在那一刻吹遍每一个角落。
"Nurse! Is this the 28th or the 29th?"	"护士！这是28号还是29号？"
And I went, "Oh my God.	我知道了，"哦，我的上帝。
I've got some catching up to do!"	我要有一些事情要做了！"
Show everybody what you intend."	向每一个人展示你的想法"
My eardrum blew. My shoes flew off.	我的鼓膜破了，我的鞋子飞了出去
Reading his words, I welled with anger.	读完他的口供，我异常愤怒
Each of us had a before and an after.	没有过去就没有现在和未来。
People apologize for less.	因为人们要为自己的过失道歉
Abed would say, "I'm sorry."	Abed也可能会说，"对不起"
He'd just had surgery on his eyes, he said.	他说，他的眼睛那时刚做完手术
We looked down at his laminated mug.	我们低头看他的叠层杯上的照片
"The crash changed both of our lives," I said.	我说"车祸改变我们的生活"
Abed then told me why he'd suffered.	Abed然后告诉我他为什么难受
"Strange," he agreed.	"是的，很奇怪"他随声附和
Some, as had I, would remember.	另一些人，比如我，却牢牢记得
Abed and I sat with our coffee.	Abed和我坐在一起，喝着咖啡
He was not a particularly bad man or a particularly good man.	算不上恶贯满盈当然也绝非善类
This is at the Korean Advanced Institute of Science and Technology.	这地点在韩国高等科学技术学院。
I built the head. They built the body.	我做了头部，他们则做了身体。
And there is billions of dollars being spent on that.	人们却耗费数十亿元在那上头。
And we're getting this mass-manufactured.	我们正在大规模生产这个产品。
In that way, sitting has become the smoking of our generation.	因此"坐"已成为这个时代的烟害
There were others, and I found this quite cheeky.	还有些人，我觉得脸皮太厚了，
Now the idea of a multiverse is a strange one.	多元宇宙是个很怪的想法。
In part two, I'll offer a solution to that mystery.	第二部分，我会解开这个奥秘。
Instead they found that it's speeding up, going faster and faster.	相反速度在加快，越来越快。
That's like tossing an apple upward and it goes up faster and faster.	就像抛一个苹果，它快速地上升。
What's pushing on it?	是一种什么力量推动它呢？
And this explanation represents great progress.	这个解释代表着很大的进步。
But I promised you a mystery here in part one.	我答应过你这是第一部分的一个谜。
Expressed in the relevant unit, it is spectacularly small.	用相关的单位来表现，它非常小。
Now you might wonder, should you care?	你现在可能想知道，你应该担忧吗？
And the central idea of string theory is quite straightforward.	而弦理论的中心思想非常简单。
That is, we all know about the usual three dimensions of space.	我们都知道通常的三维空间。
And you can think about those as height, width and depth.	你可以用高度，宽度和深度来考虑。
And in string theory, vibration determines everything.	在弦理论中，振动决定一切。
Maybe each of these shapes is on an equal footing with every other.	也许这些性状之间是互相平等的。
Which means we have been asking the wrong question.	也意味着，我们一直问错了问题。
And that's a question on which we can make headway.	我们在这个问题上能取得进展。
Mystery solved, multiverse found.	谜团破解了，多元宇宙被发现。
And again, that's a question we can answer.	同样，这个问题我们能回答。
The Big Bang leaves out something pretty important, the Bang.	大爆炸留下了很重要的就是，爆炸。
The inflationary theory already has strong observational support.	通胀理论已经有强大的观测支持。
Now, you notice he's sitting.	请注意，他现在是坐着的。
You're going to meet Milo for the first time.	你现在是第一次遇到米洛。
So here he is walking through the grass.	那么，他现在正在草坪上散步。
You're actually sculpting a human being here.	实际上在这里你是在塑造一个人。
You're helping him discover the garden by just pointing out these snails.	你得帮他找找看点击那些蜗牛就行。
Now we've used the hand.	之前我们已经用手进行了控制
You order an airline ticket; you end up in Timbuktu.	订张机票，结果飞到提布图去了。
He said, "Go on, Milo. Squash it."	迪米特里说"米洛，去踩扁它"，
Okay, this is skimming stones.	嗯，这就是打水漂儿游戏。
It's all been too much for him.	这一切对他来说太沉重了。
You're going to meet loads of cool, new friends.	你会遇到一些很酷的新朋友。
You've got a cool garden to play in and a pond.	现在有一个很棒的花园，还有池塘。
Some of those adventures are a little bit dark or on the darker side.	有一些是去做一点点坏事。
She thinks she's dreaming, but she's not.	她一瞬间认为她在做梦，但她错了。
And she didn't see him for years.	她很多年没见到自己的孩子了。
I learned about ordinary people who could be heroes.	我明白了普通人也能成为英雄
I learned about sharing. I learned about camaraderie.	我学会了共享，我学会了友情。
Most of all, I learned about love.	最重要的是，我学到了爱。
And then war and chaos descend.	而在这时，战争和混乱降临了。
Rwanda is a place that haunts me a lot.	卢旺达是一个我忘不了的地方。
And that's pretty much why I do it.	这就是为什么我做着我做的事情
Why aren't you home with Luca?"	你怎么不和卢卡在家里?"
But there will always be another war."	但是世界上总会有另一场战争。
And there, sadly, will always be wars.	而可悲的是，战争是不会停止的。
I'm not a U.N. conflict resolution person.	我不是一个联合国冲突决议人。
Who cares about Syria? Who cares about Bosnia?	谁在乎叙利亚？谁在乎波斯尼亚？
We want to see and measure storms -- brainstorms, that is.	我们想要观测的是头脑风暴
You can put it louder if you can.	需要的话，你们可以放大音量来听。
Actually any primate will do that.	这适用于任何灵长类动物。
You're going to see an animal basically touching these three targets.	你将看到实验动物触摸这三个目标
The animal is controlling the avatar to touch the targets.	这只实验动物正控制化身去触摸目标
The legends that you see in the movie don't appear for the monkey.	猴子看不见这个视频上的标示
And that's a picture that every neurophysiologist knows.	这是每个神经生物学家都熟知的图像
So where are we taking all this?	我们所谈的所有这一切是为了什么？
I think I'm going to follow my grandmother's advice.	我觉得我还是会相信我祖母的建议。
Let me take you to the real China.	我要带你们去看看真正的中国。
You're going to be spending the rest of your life in the rice paddies.	你反正要在稻田度过一生，
Why would we waste this money on you?"	我们又何必在你身上浪费钱？"
This is what happens to girls in remote areas.	偏远山区的女孩子们处境都类似。
He thought, "Oh, I can renovate the school.	他想，"我可以翻修学校了。
So Dai Manju basically finished out middle school.	因此戴曼君完成了初中学业。
She scouted for jobs down in Guangdong province in the south.	她在中国南部的广州省求职。
What we saw was a natural experiment.	这一切都是真实而自然地发生的。
How many of you think -- a few -- how many of you there are more females in the world?	多少人认为世界上女性比较多？
But in most of the rest of the world, that's not the case.	然而在其他地方，事实正相反。
Sometimes it's also because of the sonogram.	还有一个原因是超声波的使用。
The entire center was filled with girls like her.	整个中心都是和她一样的女童。
He was speaking to an audience much like yourselves.	他当时面对着和你们一样的观众。
So what would some of the specific challenges look like?	那么具体来说又有哪些挑战？
I would say, on the top of the agenda is sex trafficking.	我认为当前最首要的是非法性交易。
The second item on the agenda is maternal mortality.	第二重要的事，是母亲的死亡率。
And the most devastating injury is obstetric fistula.	最残忍的后遗症是阴道瘘管。
Let me tell you about Mahabuba.	我要告诉你们马哈布巴的故事。
That night, there was a stick in the hut.	那天晚上，草屋里只有一根棍子。
She fought off the hyenas with that stick.	她奋力用棍子赶跑了土狼。
Let me tell you about Saima.	我要告诉你们赛玛的故事。
She was beaten every single day by her husband, who was unemployed.	每一天她都被她失业的丈夫殴打。
Saima took that money, and she started an embroidery business.	赛玛用这笔钱，开始做刺绣生意。
Actually, she had never been to school, not to a lick, one day.	其实她从未去过学校，一点都没有。
She's going to spend most of her life lugging water back and forth."	她这辈子都只需要来来回回运水。"
But I want to give you a reality check.	但我还要给你们看看事实。
You know, the criticism is fair; it isn't easy.	这些批评很中肯。这不容易。
Turns out that it's a failed irrigation project.	结果那是一个失败的灌溉工程。
A few yards away was a failed chicken coop.	再几步远，是一个失败的鸡舍。
You learn from your mistakes, and you continuously improve.	你从错误中学习，你一直在改进。
One of those things is contributing to a cause larger than yourself.	其中一个，是超越个人范围的奉献。
Feel happier and help save the world.	让自己更快乐，让世界更美好。
And all of this from a puff of air emanating from our mouths.	这一切只因为口吐一口气而已
Because this is exactly what our ancestors, the Homo erectus, did.	因为我们的祖先--直立人就是这样
You can follow it through the fossil record.	你可以通过各年代的化石看到
But by comparison, we can learn.	但是相比之下我们有学习能力
And all of this because of cumulative cultural adaptation.	这一切都归因于累积性文化适应
And so some time around 200,000 years ago, our species confronted this crisis.	大约二十万年前人类遇到了这一困境
And small groups are more prone to accidents and bad luck.	却更有发生事故和厄运的倾向
Well, we chose the second option, and language is the result.	我们选了第二条路语言就是产物
Language evolved to solve the crisis of visual theft.	语言的进化解决了观察性窃取的危机
Language really is the voice of our genes.	语言的确是我们基因的声音
Now you might say, well, this is just natural.	也许你觉得这是很自然的事
As we diverge, our languages are naturally going to diverge.	当我们越分散，语言也越高度分化
And you can probably think of many, many more in your own everyday lives.	也许你可以想到更多生活中的例子
And so our modern world now is confronting us with a dilemma.	那么现代社会面临着一个困境
My car has an engine, but it's not a Ferrari.	我的车也有引擎但它不是法拉利
It even has the same amount of headline as all the other ones you've seen.	小标题的数量都一模一样。
And we've accomplished close to zip.	但是我们解决的问题几乎等于0。
Really, we're doing this, basically. Really, not very much.	事实上我们在行动。但成果不大。
And there's no adaption.	因为北极上不会有生物适应。
And I know for certain that that will work.	据我所知，这种方法是肯定有效的。
There's no big mystery about it.	其实，这里没有什么大的秘密。
But if you do this, it's quick.	但是如果你们这样做，就会很快。
So here are the graphs you've seen lots of times before.	这些是你们过去看过无数次的表格。
I'm not saying we shouldn't cut emissions.	我不是说我们不应该减排。
We should, but it made exactly this point.	我们应该减排，但是这不是重点。
He said roughly what's been said before.	他的观点和过去的大体相同。
And it turns out, I woke up the next morning, and I started to calculate this.	第二天早上起来，我就开始计算。
And so you see a net force away from the sun.	所以产生一种和太阳能相反的力，
Now, suppose that space aliens arrived.	大家试想一下外星人来了——
One knob is the knob for controlling global temperature.	第一个可以控制全球气温，
Maybe another knob is a knob for controlling CO2 concentrations.	或许第二个可以控制CO2的浓度。
But we're building that box.	但是我们在制造那个盒子。
We need a broader debate.	我们还需要更广泛地讨论。
And that calculation isn't much in dispute.	而且计算的结果没有太大的分歧。
I don't think anybody takes that seriously.	我认为不是所有人都当真。
But here's a case which is harder to reject.	我们不能回避这样一个问题。
But there is a problem with that view.	但是这样看也会有个问题。
This is what economists call a moral hazard.	这就是经济学家所说的道德风险。
A treaty that decides who gets to do this.	来决定这项任务由谁来完成。
I'm going to run through some of the photographs in this series.	我将展示这一系列中的一些相片。
There is a pig's head and African cane rats.	这里有一个猪头和非洲蔗鼠
I do take certain liberties and intervene.	我还行使了一定的自由权力和介入。
It's a research crop marijuana grow room.	这是一个研究用大麻的种植房间。
And the white tiger is obviously celebrated in several forms of entertainment.	白虎在很多娱乐形式中都非常有名。
This is at Fort Campbell in Kentucky.	这是在肯塔基州的福特坎贝尔。
It's a Military Operations on Urbanized Terrain site.	这是一个"城市化地区"的军事行动
And I put them into my photograph.	于是我把他们都装进了我的照片。
I'll give you an example from a case.	我将给你一个这样的例子。
Calvin Washington was convicted of capital murder.	凯文华盛顿被宣判犯有蓄意谋杀罪。
He is photographed at his alibi location.	他在案发当时他所在的地方照了相。
So, I'm going to start off with kind of the buzzkill a little bit.	好吧，我的开场可能有点让人扫兴
Before that time, people are left to their own devices.	在那之前，人们只能靠自己。
Now we have instant neighborhoods outside.	现在大家都成了新的邻居。
These are a number of our science space Earth orbiters.	这有我们许许多多的地球轨道飞行器
All right, so what about the rest of it?	那好，其他的还有什么了？
It's actually pretty busy.	其实这里了是非常热闹的。
Now, there's a funny thing going on here.	这个里面了有一个非常有意思的事
And I'm going to recenter the camera on Saturn, here.	我现在把镜头重新聚焦到土星上
It actually flies underneath Saturn.	它实际上是从土星的下面飞过
And, in fact, I'm going to go back to the solar system.	接着了，让我们重新回到太阳系
It isn't just that. We're seeing it all over the world.	其实不然我们是从整个世界来看的
In the United States right now there are more suicides than homicides.	现在在美国自杀的要多于他杀
And that's how powerful the one negative is.	一个消极互动就是这么厉害
But unfortunately, we need this system in part.	然而在某种程度上我们需要这个系统
We really have two command posts.	我们实际上是由两方面控制的
Emotions are short-lived intense responses to challenge and to opportunity.	情绪对挑战和机遇的短期强烈反应
So let me go forward to the new science of happiness.	下面我转到关于幸福的新科学
And it's been missing. It's been missing from psychotherapy.	幸福缺失了从心理治疗中缺失了
And they're sort of two reciprocal and dynamically interacting systems.	这两者是互补并活跃互动的系统
We don't seem to have a word for that.	我们似乎找不到一个词来表达
Babies really are born with a lot of innate pleasures.	婴儿有许多与生俱来的内在快感
One is the reward system, and that's fed by the chemical dopamine.	一个是犒赏系统分泌出多巴胺
This was originally seen as a system that was the pleasure system of the brain.	这原本被看做是大脑的快感系统
Extroverts use it more than introverts.	性格外向的人比内向的人笑得更开
Humans, particularly so, we're very imitative creatures.	人类尤为如此我们是善于模仿的造物
And if you stick your tongue out at this baby, the baby will do the same.	如果你向他伸出舌头他会学你
We are social beings from the beginning.	我们自出世就是社会性的人
It's sort of "me," not "we."	强调"我"而不是"我们"
And being alone is very unnatural to the human.	孤独对人类来说是非常不自然的
But there are ways in which our evolutionary history can really trip us up.	然而进化史有许多容易误导人的地方
There's lust, which is just wanting to have sex.	一个是性欲也就是对性的渴望
See the problem is that, as humans, these three can separate.	问题是对于人类而言这三者可以分开
The data isn't terribly supportive of money buying happiness.	数据显示金钱并不能购买幸福
But it's not irrelevant.	但是金钱与幸福还是有关系的
So clearly there is some effect.	显然金钱还是有一点影响的
And one of the problems with money is materialism.	关于金钱的另一个问题是拜金主义
Women had a whole different set of value shifts.	女性的价值观变化截然不同
But very similarly, the only one that survived there was happiness.	但相似的是只有幸福是两者皆有的
I also had a passion for Africa.	我还有一个关于非洲的梦想。
And you should see the pride in the eyes of these people.	你应该能够看到他们眼中的自豪。
Here it's already at the third sample.	这里已经是第三个样本了。
It gets a click sound and comes for the food reward.	它听到响声并得到食品奖励。
Microscopy for 1,800 patients.	这是1800个病人的显微镜结果。
So, to standardize this.	所以，去标准化这个事情。
But it can contemplate the vastness of interstellar space.	但它却可以探究浩瀚的星际空间；
There are 100 billion neurons in the adult human brain.	成人脑组织里含有一千亿个神经元。
So, how do you go about studying the brain?	所以，我们应该如何研究大脑？
For one thing they must be involved in things like imitation and emulation.	这里我必须引入模仿和仿真的概念。
So, this is important for imitation and emulation.	因此模仿和仿真是非常重要的。
Well, let's take a look at the next slide.	让我们看看下一张幻灯片。
So, how do you do imitation? Why is imitation important?	你怎样进行模仿？模仿为什么重要？
Mirror neurons and imitation, emulation.	镜像神经元，模仿和仿真。
All of that happened relatively quickly.	这一切都相对地较快发生。
So, it's empathizing the other person being touched.	注意，我是说他人被触碰。
And this is not mumbo-jumbo philosophy.	这并不是晦涩难懂的哲学。
It emerges from our understanding of basic neuroscience.	这是由基础神经学所引申出来的。
And this is Yuyu, who is a dancer I have been working with.	这是宇玉，她是与我合作的舞蹈家
Now you put water into a cup.	现在你把水倒在一个杯子里
Put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot.	把水倒在茶壶里，它就是茶壶的形状
He had a side parting and a neat mustache.	他有着偏分的发型和利落的胡子
My dad doesn't even have an Indian accent anymore.	我的父亲的印度口音早就消失了
So it's not just my father that I've imitated.	我模仿的对象并不只有我父亲而已
I said, "Yes. So?"	我说"是的。那又怎样？"
Thank you. I have two missions here today.	谢谢。今天在这我有两项任务。
It carries male sex cells from one flower to another.	它把雄性细胞从一朵花传到另一朵。
Pollen is produced by the anthers of flowers.	花粉产生于花朵的花粉囊。
And remember that all our cereal crops are grasses as well.	记住所有的谷类作物也是草。
Here is a scanning electron micrograph of a grain of pollen.	这是一张花粉的电子扫描显微照片。
Like I said, pollen carries the male sex cells.	我说过的，花粉携带着雄性细胞。
First of all, pollen is tiny. Yes we know that.	首先，花粉很小。这我们知道。
Now, it's much more efficient if you can get insects to do your bidding.	如果能让昆虫来传播将会更有效。
Very showy, to attract lots of insects to do its bidding.	很艳丽，以此来吸引昆虫传粉。
And this is where it gets interesting for forensics.	这便是法医学的有趣之处。
But pollen forensics can be very subtle.	但是花粉鉴定之术可以非常精确。
This is a horse chestnut.	顺便说一句，这是七叶树。
It's a closely held secret for reasons I don't know.	我不知道为什么不为人所知。
Because the personal, as you know, is political.	因为个人呢，也是政治化的。
It's certainly what I learned when I was training.	我受训的时候就是这样学的。
I'm going to tell you why.	我要告诉大家为什么这样。
Heart disease kills people, often very quickly.	心脏病发作死亡,经常很快。
Breast cancer, mortality is down to four percent.	乳腺癌死亡率下降了4个百分点。
And that is the 40 years that women have advocated.	这就是40年来妇女呼吁的结果。
That has to happen in heart disease, and it's time.	对待心脏病也应该这样，是时候了。
It's not happening, and it's time.	现在还没做什么，是时候了。
We owe an incredible debt of gratitude to these two women.	我们对这两位女性欠下感激之债。
And so how did she get educated then?	那她怎么样接受的教育呢？
Mortality is not going down, it's going up.	死亡率没有下降，而在上升。
And it funds a lot of my research.	我的许多研究是由它赞助的。
It was a very big deal for her to become director.	她当部长是很轰动一时的。
It informed us about breast cancer, colon cancer in women.	它告诉我们女性的乳腺癌，大肠癌。
And the under-reading was women aren't worth it.	字里行间是说女性不值得。
Hollywood heart attack. Ughhhh.	好莱坞式的心脏病发作。啊。。。
Right here, it's just a focal -- right there.	就在这，就一个焦点--这里。
Cellulite here, cellulite here.	这里一块赘肉，这里一团脂肪。
Men just have to dump it in a single area."	男人只能倒进一个地方。"
So we said, "Let's look at these."	我们说，"来看看这些。"
And you can see, it's lumpy bumpy.	你能看到，是波浪不平的。
He's got a beer belly in his coronary arteries.	在他的冠状动脉里长了个啤酒肚。
Kind of hard to see that female-pattern disease.	但难于看到女性模式的疾病。
We selected this for the research.	我们为这项研究做了选择。
This was the only modality that can see the inner lining of the heart.	这是能看到心脏内膜的唯一模式。
These are our life-saving treatments.	这些都是挽救生命的疗法。
Because women bring new life into the world.	因为女性把新生命带到世上。
These are female and male stem cells.	这就是女性和男性干细胞。
What has happened in the last 15 years with this work?	在过去的15年里都做了些什么？
We still have two to three more women dying for every man.	女性的死亡率仍是男性的两到三倍。
This is what we need to do with heart disease now.	我们对于心脏病也要这样做。
So we have these feast and famine cycles.	这就我们有盛宴和饥荒的循环。
So I implore you to join the Red Dress Campaign in this fundraising.	我恳求大家去参加红衣活动的筹款。
The cells are kind of homesick; the dish doesn't feel like their home.	细胞会想家培养皿不像它们的家
What else do we know about the heart?	关于心脏我们还了解什么？
Let's take the example of electrical stimulation.	让我们举一个电刺激的例子
It's about the size of a mini marshmallow.	差不多一个迷你棉花糖大小
What does this mean for us?	做这些对我们意味着什么？
Let's do something really simple.	让我们做些非常简单的事情
This is my wife and collaborator, Rupal.	这是我妻子和合作者，鲁泊尔
And there's video analytics that are tracking our movements.	这是影片分析跟踪我们的移动
And finally, my son playing in a walking toy by himself.	最后，我儿子自己玩他的学步玩具
The spiral thread we call a "solo hot spot."	那些螺旋线我们称为单一热点
And we think that these affect the way language is learned.	我们觉得这个影响语言学习
In this video, again, my son is being traced out.	在这个录像中同样是跟踪我的儿子
And just for contrast, we can do this with any word.	相对，你也可以为其他词汇勾勒词景
And we're now zoomed in over the entrance to the house.	我们放大到房子大门口附近
And the same idea now can be built up.	这都是用同样的思路构建起来的
And there are fascinating dynamics at play.	这里头上演着引人注目的戏剧
We're only going to talk about three of them.	我们只会讨论其中的三个。
And it's the part that feels.	它是创造感知的那个部位。
It activates a different part of the brain.	这个激活了大脑的不同部分。
You can ask the question, "Who's the boss?"	你可能问到，"谁是老板？"
And this is our great unveiling for today.	今天我们就要进行盛大的揭幕仪式。
Secondly, making them interactive.	第二个，让他们具有互动成分。
And then thirdly, making them persistent.	然后第三个，让他们具有持久性。
This is the first house I built.	这是我建造的第一个房子。
And then these buttons on the corbels here.	看阶梯状的屋檐边得几个按钮-
Even the lockset is probably worth 200 dollars.	甚至这个锁可能也值200美元。
Everything in the kitchen was salvaged.	厨房里所有的东西都是回收来的。
I got that staircase for 20 dollars, including delivery to my lot.	我用20美元买的楼梯，包括运费。
This is a laundry chute, and this right here is a shoe last.	这是洗衣房，右面的最后是鞋楦。
Then, this faucet here is just a piece of Osage Orange.	这个水龙头是桑橙树的一部分。
And then the faucet, there, is a beer tap.	那里的水龙头是一个啤酒栓子。
That's one of those new chocolate cell phones."	那是新型巧克力手机的一种。"
That's how we process information.	这是我们处理信息的方式。
Because that's what you do with a cracked pane.	因为这是你处理破窗户的方式。
Never mind that it doesn't affect our lives at all.	但是这并不影响我们的生活。
So, that serves me every day.	所以，这是我每天所做的。
That causes a lot of waste in the building industry.	这造成了建筑业中很多的废料。
And in there he said that cultures tend to swing between one of two perspectives.	在书里他说文化在两种看法中徘徊。
The Dionysian personality takes the picture and goes ...	酒神的特性只是找个照片……
Apollonian mindset creates mountains of waste.	阿波罗的看法创造了大量的废料。
"Oops" this, "oops" that. "Landfill. Landfill. Landfill."	这个，那个。垃圾。垃圾。垃圾。"
By the middle of the 19th century, it's in full flower.	19世纪中期，这些在蓬勃发展。
"Oh, I'm so sorry, sir. We'll get you a straight one."	"对不起。我们会给你做个直的。"
"Dan, I just don't think I'm ready."	"Dan，我不认为我准备好了。"
And the superintendent walked up and said, "What are you doing?"	主管走过去说，"你在做什么？"
And the irony is that he wasn't very good at math.	具有讽刺意味的是他并不擅长数学。
And that's what happened there.	这就是在那里发生的故事。
It's a chattel mortgage, just like furniture, just like a car.	这是动产抵押就像家具，就象汽车。
You write the check, and instantly it depreciates 30 percent.	你付款后马上就贬值百分之三十。
The whole thing has the structural value of corn.	整个就只有玉米的结构价值。
Then when they degrade, what do you do with them?	然后质量降低了，你该怎么办呢？
We buy stuff we didn't know we needed.	我们买了我们并不需要的东西。
In there he talked about the divided self.	书中他谈论了分裂的性格。
Sometimes we even have these formalized cultural expectations.	有时我们甚至有固定文化的需求。
Sometimes those guys are Nazis, my oh my.	有时那些人像是纳粹，天啊。
That exacerbates and continues this model.	这个加剧并且继续着这种模型。
See, look, don't touch my designer jeans.	看，不要碰我的品牌牛仔裤。
I see you don't have designer jeans.	我知道你没有品牌牛仔裤。
Second, security. Third, relationships.	第二层，安全。第三层，关系。
Fourth, status, self-esteem -- that is, vanity.	第四层，身份，自尊-这是虚无的。
And we're taking vanity and shoving it down here.	我们将虚无的放到最低下。
That is, our housing has become a commodity.	那就是，我们的房子变成了商品，
If failure destroys you, then you can't do this.	如果失败毁灭了你，你不能干这个。
Everyone I met, I felt I knew them for as long as I could remember.	所遇之人都如故人一般熟悉
This is a police photo. That's actually my car.	这是张警方的照片，那是我的车
And when they do, they find that behind the glass, they find me.	当他们作业时发现了玻璃后的我－
It's essentially there's no sign of life from outside at all.	基本就是表面看来没有任何生命迹象
We all began in the Awash Valley in Ethiopia.	从埃塞俄比亚的阿瓦什河谷开始
And here are some of the other categories, if you look at the whole planet.	如果你放眼全球还有些其他类型
Our children are becoming depressed at an alarming rate.	我们的孩子正以惊人的速度变得抑郁
If you look at some of these other items -- concussions.	至于其他的情况还有一个就是脑震荡
I didn't feel empty; I felt everything simultaneously.	我没有感到空虚我实时地感受着一切
Look into those eyes. I'm not able to focus those eyes.	看看那双眼睛我不能集中它们
But let's take a look behind my eyes.	但让我们看看眼睛背后的情况
Untestable -- that's when I'm in my coma.	不可测试的－当时我正处于昏迷状态
I'm not a doctor. I have no medical background whatsoever.	我不是医生，没有医学背景
And here's another person in, call it, high school and college.	另外一个人是在高中和大学接受的
The craniomandibular system is critical to that.	颅骨下颌骨系统是疼痛的重要原因
Bear in mind, there are no nerves in the teeth.	请记住，牙齿里并没有神经
And I'm just going to give you an example today of movement to the paralyzed.	今天我讲的例子是瘫痪者康复的例子
I've brought with me, from Southern California, the FM device.	我从南加利福尼亚带来的FM设备
So it goes in and it stays there.	因此它进入人体后就留下來
Gradually, I remembered the protector was my wife.	渐渐得我想起这个保护者是我的妻子
I believe that we can all rise and shine.	我相信我们可以如星星一般闪亮耀眼
I didn't expect that person that I was going to meet to be him.	我没想到我要见的人就是他
So I think this one detail went past people really quick.	我觉得大家可能容易错过这个细节
That little chirp followed by two chirps is now switched on.	一声后两声响就是开关打开了
And that's my friend. I mean, I charge it every night.	它是我的朋友，每晚要充电
And what I would love to add because I didn't have time ...	我很像补充点刚刚没来得及讲的
What does it do? Well actually, I'll show you down here.	它是做什么的？你们可以看到这儿
And it accelerates the amount and level of the stimulation.	就会加快刺激的数量和水平
So he saw a need and he stepped in.	因此他看到了他插手此事的必要
"And what do you mean with Western world?" I said.	我又问"什么是西方世界？"
Let me make a comparison directly between the United States of America and Vietnam.	现在我们对比一下美国和越南
We heard it in other forms. And who are these?	这是个老问题了，中间这些人是谁？
Where are the different countries? I can show you Africa.	他们在哪些国家？先看非洲
And they are over here on this side. Quite an overlap between Africa and OECD.	他们在这边，很小一部分与非洲重叠
The linearity is very strong between child survival and money.	儿童生存率和经济之间联系非常紧密
Chile will have a lower child mortality than Cuba within some few years from now.	几年后智利的儿童死亡率将低于古巴
And to show that, you can put on the way of United Arab Emirate.	为了说明这一点我们看看阿联酋
The poorest are down there. If I split South Africa, it's like this.	最贫穷的在左下边如果把南非分解开
Because the data is hidden down in the databases.	但数据被隐藏在底层的数据库里
And it wasn't that difficult. It took some person years, and we have produced animations.	这个并不难需要几个人花几年时间
You can take a data set and put it there.	建立数据库后大家就能看到动画
But this is what we would like to see, isn't it?	但这正是我们期望看到的，不是吗？
The publicly-funded data is down here.	下边是公众资助采集的数据
And we would like flowers to grow out on the Net.	我们希望互联网上长出美丽的花朵
We will be able to look at income distributions in completely new ways.	我们会用全新的视角来看收入的分配
It's pretty scary. But I think it's very important to have all this information.	很吓人吧我认为这些信息很重要
But this is hypothesis-generating.	但数据动画可以帮助提出假说
I end now with the world. There, the Internet is coming.	最后我们看一下当今的互联网世界
But it slightly bores me.	但说实话，我是觉得挺无聊的。
In back of me is a picture of me when I was 17.	我身后是一张我17岁时的照片。
I guess, you know, he was the big hero.	我那时候猜他也算是个大英雄。
So I had, you know, a hero at a distance.	我当时也有了自己仰慕的英雄。
It wasn't a baseball player; it was Linus Pauling.	不是什么棒球英豪，而是鲍林。
You can read it in about two hours.	不长，两个小时就可以读完。
Most people believed it was proteins.	但很多人却觉得应该是蛋白质。
And basically, I did nothing. And -- except read.	我则是除了读书以外，什么都没干。
But there was ones in the literature.	不过当时各种文献中都有那张照片，
Actually, Linus didn't look at them that carefully.	只不过鲍林没有看得那么仔细。
We weren't the best chemists in the room.	我们不是那里最优秀的化学家。
You've got -- the hydrogen atoms are in the wrong place.	你把氢原子放错地方了。"
I just put them down like they were in the books.	我其实就是按照书里面画的。
And we knew we were right.	我们当时就知道我们肯定是对的。
So we saw how genetic information is carried.	我们总算弄明白了所谓的基因信息
It's the order of the four bases.	是由这4个碱基的排列顺序决定的。
Most scientists are really rather dull.	大多数的科学家都是相当木讷的。
At least they patented something which, you know, could do useful things.	至少他们申请的专利还算是有用处。
So the first disease he looked at is autism.	所以他首先研究的就是自闭症。
And you can see here, there are a lot of them.	不难看到，这些基因有很多个。
So this same technique should probably look at all.	这项技术也许应该大范围地推广，
It's a wonderful way to find genes.	因为它是寻找基因很有效的方法。
"And we'd like to go ahead and close this out.	"我们决定干脆把这个官司给停了
So would you mind giving us your best and final offer?"	你介不介意给我出个价？"
My attorney said, "Nah, no chance of that working."	我的律师说"呃，估计这没戏"
They're not under NDA either.	反正他们签的也是非披露合约
Infringement is a lot easier to disprove.	证明没有侵权的话会容易得多
So what does all this mean?	那么这些事儿到底说明了什么呢？
They plow it right back into filing more troll lawsuits.	他们把它用在申请更多的钓鱼诉讼上
The health care industry would like stronger protections for inventors.	医疗保障系统希望发明者被重点保护
They really enjoyed each other's company.	他们真的很享受彼此的陪伴。
And the girls decided to make it an annual event.	女孩儿们决定每年都举办一次。
That's worse than not having him here at all."	"那还不如不让他出现在这儿。"
In this scene, people are living in an iron lung.	在这张图片里人们生活在铁制的肺中
There was no cure, and there was no vaccine.	当时却没有疗法也没有疫苗
But the reality is that polio still exists today.	但现实是它仍然存在于世间
There's not very much left in the world.	存于世界的病源已经很好了
They had come from thousands of miles away.	他们从几千公里外的地方远道而来
It's just happening in another part of the world.	它不过正在世界另外一个角落发生
We're not trying to control polio.	我们不是单纯去控制脊髓灰质炎
This virus can only survive in people.	脊髓灰质炎病毒只能在人体中存活
It doesn't survive in the environment hardly at all.	它在自然界中几乎无法生存
So we are trying to wipe out this virus completely.	此我们正努力彻底根除这种病毒
Now we don't have a great track record when it comes to doing something like this, to eradicating diseases.	我们并不擅长根除疾病这样的任务
But reaching 500 million people is much, much tougher.	但要普及五亿多人那可是难上加难
But one of the most extraordinary is Rotary International.	但其中最卓越的是国际扶轮社
Let's settle for control -- that's good enough."	我们以控制为目标吧，这其实已足够
Umar is an exceptional kid in exceptional circumstances.	他是个例外的孩子处在例外的环境中
Polio strikes the poorest communities in the world.	它打击的是世界上最穷困的社会群体
Well, in a couple of months we had to get it out of production.	几个月后，我们便生产出成品
And we didn't start with the easy places.	我们并不是从容易的地方开始
And yet, the impossible is happening.	但是不可能的事情正在发生
It's ready to reach them with bed nets, with other things.	给他们提供蚊帐，以及其他
Where would you say we need to be the smartest?	我们需要在那些地方特别谨慎
Give us a sense of how much the campaign costs a year.	这场运动每年大概会耗费多少钱
And that great buy costs us a little bit more.	而这项伟大交易的成本又上涨了一些
Well, we needn't have worried.	其实，我们的担心是多余的。
And actually from that day on, she's been comfortable with us.	事实上，从那天起，她接纳了我们。
But that's not always easy for us.	但对我们来说，这往往不容易做到。
We're on the edge through a large part of the time.	在很多时间里，我们处于临界状态。
These are precious to us, these divides.	这些分界对我们来说很重要。
It was like watching a graduation ceremony.	我就像在观看一场毕业典礼。
We felt like we were surrogate parents.	我们觉得自己好像是代理家长。
We had to deal with these individual personalities.	我们必须面对这些独特的个性。
I call it complacency -- our complacency.	我称之为自傲——我们人类的自傲。
They're essential to the habitat.	它们对栖息地来说是极重要的。
It's just elementary probability theory.	这仅仅是最基础的概率论。
The beautiful thing is that it moves bodily.	它是一个美妙的流动沙丘。
How else would you remember it?	否则，你又如何会记着这些东西呢？
My mom was a homemaker.	我的妈妈是一位家庭主妇，
Together, we raised four wonderful children.	我们一起养育了四个很棒的孩子。
I shaved myself for the first time in 10 years.	10年来第一次我给自己剃了胡子。
By the way, check out my sweet ride.	对了，看看我的宝贝座驾。
Okay, Henry, have you been to D.C. lately?	亨利，你最近来过华盛顿特区么？
Can you show us how excited you are?	你能告诉我们你有多兴奋么？
It's like a looking glass into a hidden world.	是我们发现隐藏世界的眼镜。
So, for example, here on the left we can see a snowflake as it would appear in nature.	例如，左图是我们自然界中的雪花，
And here is a starfish and a cymatic starfish.	这里是海星和cymatic海星。
But consider for a moment that sound does have form.	但自从声音可以有图案出现，
We've seen that it can affect matter and cause form within matter.	它影响并形成了很多新事物。
And think about the immense sound of the universe forming.	宇宙形成时的声音是什么样呢？
It's been a major trending topic.	因为它已经成了一个热门话题了
Now there's a couple -- there's a couple of lessons that you can take from this.	从这个故事中我们可以学到几样东西
There's more than five million of them.	估计有超过500万的巴西人在用
That's a much higher number than in the U.S. or U.K.	这比英国或美国的使用比例还高
Twitter recently did some research.	Twitter最近做了一项研究
And we tend not to see that wider picture.	我们看不到一个更大的世界
Now, Negroponte has been right about a lot of things.	尼哥罗庞蒂确实说对了很多东西
He's totally wrong about this one.	但在这一点上，他却完全错了
There's a coup government. There's a military government.	那里发生了政变，出现了军政府
There's crackdowns on the press.	该国的新闻出版也遭到了钳制
It's actually a place that we probably should be paying attention to at the moment.	那也许正是我们此刻该关注的地方
And that's a framework that includes things like airline routes.	这些构架就包括国际航空线
And you'll discover that there are parts of the globe that are systematically cut off.	还有一些地区是被系统性的割裂开了
So here's the problem that I've been interested in in the last decade or so.	这就是我最近十年在关心的一个事情
The world is, in fact, getting more global.	这个世界正变得越来越全球化
More of problems are global in scale.	更多的问题开始变得全球化
And this tends to give us a very distorted view of the world.	这带给我们的是一个不够真实的世界
and a couple of other countries which we've invaded.	以及其他几个曾被美国侵略过的国家
And that's basically what our media is about.	这两者基本就是美国媒体关注的重心
It turns out that new media isn't necessarily helping us all that much.	甚至是新媒体也没有带来很大的改变
You probably won't.	但是我想你基本不会这么做
This is a problem we have to solve.	这就是我们需要解决的问题
So here's the good news.	下面要带给大家一个好消息
This is a group called Global Voices.	他们都是"全球之声"的志愿者
Our mission was to fix the world's media.	我们的使命就是要给世界的媒体解毒
They were doing something much simpler.	他们做的是简单得多的事情
Most independent media was shut down.	大多数的独立媒体都被关闭
And the results can be pretty funny.	于是你看到的翻译也许会很滑稽
And if you think this is absurd, it's not.	也许你会认为这有点疯狂，事实不是
There's a group right now in China called Yeeyan.	这是一群叫"译言"的家伙
And Yeeyan is a group of 150,000 volunteers who get online every day.	它是一个有15万志愿译者的群体
They put it online for free.	并且所有的翻译都是免费阅读的
What are they looking at? Maybe we should be looking at it.	他们关注的东西也许我们也感兴趣
She has to know something about what stories are available.	也需要知道本地有些什么新闻
Basically, she's a deejay.	我们可以把她的角色看成是一个DJ
And AfriGadget is a blog that looks at technology in an Africa context.	它是专门关注非洲技术圈的群体博客
And the truth is, this guy can probably explain this to you.	这个家伙也许可以给你解释
And that's where we start talking about xenophiles.	这时我们就不得不谈起"异国癖"
And his reason for this is not just that he wants to master Muay Thai boxing.	之所以这么做不是因为他要学会泰拳
We have to fix the internet. We have to fix our education.	改变互联网，改变我们的教育
And we need to figure out how to cultivate xenophiles.	我们都要学会养成一点"异国癖"
Just heard that he claimed that you play the piano in an opium den."	他说你在鸦片馆里给人弹钢琴
And this isn't just a problem in Britain.	这并不是一个在英国才有的问题
Since then, what's happened?	可在那以后情况又是怎样呢？
Why should we get away from those arguments?	为什么我们应该避免这样的论点？
Democracy is not simply a question of structures.	民主并不仅仅是政权的结构问题
It is a state of mind. It is an activity.	它是一种思想状态，也是一种行动
And part of that activity is honesty.	而诚实则是这行动中的一部分
So, where are they from?	那么，他们是从哪里来的？
The short answer is, actually, they're from Japan.	简单的说，他们是从日本来的。
So, how did they get to the United States?	那么，他们是怎样传入美国的呢？
They are more American than anything else.	他们比任何东西都要具有美国特色。
He's retired, deaf and plays a lot of Mahjong.	退休了，耳聋了，打很多麻将。
So, another dish. One of my favorites. Beef with broccoli.	另外一道我喜欢的菜，西兰花牛肉。
And then they're like, is this Chinese food?	他们还问，这是中国菜吗？
So, why -- why and where -- did chop suey come from?	那么，炒杂烩为什么，从哪里来呢？
Now, who came up with the idea of chop suey?	那么，是谁想出来做炒杂烩的呢？
So, you see different varieties of Chinese food.	有许许多多不同种类的中国菜。
This is a dish called Magic Bowl that I discovered.	我发现了一道叫做魔术之碗的菜。
But it wasn't enough to use the priests.	但是仅仅靠祭司是不够的。
Not only would it lift, but it might never return.	不仅仅是减轻，还可能完全根治。
So people would have a real grand mal seizure.	结果患者会有癫痫大发作。
Now, why am I telling you this story at this meeting?	我为什么要给你们讲这些？
And let me tell you this story.	让我给你们讲讲这个故事。
And anybody who's been depressed here knows what that's like.	在座有过抑郁症的人都能了解。
I couldn't even pull the covers off myself.	我甚至没力气把被子掀开。
I shuffled when I walked. I was bowed over.	我拖着脚走路，我弯着腰。
They tried the usual psychotherapy.	他们试了常规的心理疗法，
But I had something better. And it was very simple.	我有更好的主意,非常简单
Every once in a while, I get somewhat depressed and a little obsessional.	偶尔,我还会郁闷并有点强迫性思维
The components of this material are just water and protein.	这材料的成分只有水和蛋白质
And so we get this starting material.	这样我们得到了这些原始材料
And so this starting material is back to the basic building block.	用这些原始材料被还原成基本构件
And we take advantage of something that is very simple.	我们对它构造简单这优点加以利用
So it would be able to replicate the information that is on the DVD.	它能刻录下信息在这影碟上
It's actually not limited to films.	实际上对于这薄膜没有什么限制
You can add a third dimensionality to the film.	你能在薄膜内加注三维的图像
And the gears work in water as well.	而且齿轮在水里也是能工作的
So you think of alternative mechanical parts.	当你想到替换机械部件的话
But there are still some unique traits.	但是它还是有些独特的特征
And you see here a picture of a tissue section.	你这里看到的是一张组织横截图
And you see there, it gets reintegrated in tissue.	你这里看到的，它和组织细胞所融合
So it makes the materials environmentally active and interactive.	这使得材料能作用和互相作用
So we've made a silk card with penicillin in it.	我们研发出带有青霉素的丝片
So the thread of discovery that we have really is a thread.	我们发现过程真的是一个曲折的过程
I think he's going to be super popular.	我认为它在未来将会特别受欢迎。
It knows how much it's moving.	还有它会知道笑话的好笑程度。
And so it's going to try to watch your response.	现在它要尝试看看你们的反应。
"That's terrible," said the patient.	病人说，"那真是太可怕了。"
Ever see that little Swiss Army knife they have to fight with?	看过他们拿着那小瑞士军刀打战没？
The other guy whips out his cell phone and calls 911.	另外一个人拿出他的手机打911。
First, let's make sure he's dead."	首先，让我们先确定他已经死了。"
Because it's neither rare nor well done.	因为它既不是半生的也不是熟透了。
Data: I find it incredibly educational.	我觉得看电视富有教育意义。
It's a norm. It's a social norm.	这是一个准则，一个社会行为规范。
The question is, what can I do with you?	问题是，我们可以在一起做什么？
What can we do together that benefits us both?	我们能在一起做些有益双方的事情？
The economies of the future depend on that.	未来的经济发展依赖于此。
The threat to worry about isn't strangers.	我们应该担心的不是遇到陌生人。
Strangeness is not about meeting strangers.	"陌生感"不是说我们要见陌生人。
We have to change the norms.	我们需要打破过去的陈规。
The range of digital relations is extraordinary.	数字关系的范围是十分宽广的。
When I was a child I knew nothing about this, of course.	当我还是孩子的时候当然什么都不懂
In order to do that, I set out to forge their signature.	为此我着手伪造他们的签名
He was laughing so hard, he could not stop and he was holding my assignment in his hand.	他笑得停不下来手里还拿着我的作业
And in my head I would be thinking that "doing" a war meant being a soldier.	在我的认知里参与战争就是成为士兵
These are mine, I was born an Argentinean.	这些是我的我成了阿根廷人
I wanted to ask him questions, which he didn't answer.	我有很多问题想问不过他没回答
So, his story. My father was born in Argentina.	关于他的故事他出生于阿根廷
It was my grandfather who decided they needed false documents.	我祖父决定他们得弄到假证件
But it was he who went to meet a man from the Resistance.	但他去见了一个来自抵抗军的人
Suddenly the man looked very, very interested.	突然那个人很感兴趣地看着他
And my father immediately replied that he knew exactly how to bleach it.	我父亲立刻回答说他知道怎么去除
He told himself it was necessary to make them from scratch.	他告诉自己一切要从零开始
So he was a photographer by day, and a forger by night for 30 years.	他白天摄影晚上造假持续了30年
One day my father introduced me to my sister.	有天父亲把我介绍给我姐姐
And if he did not tell them, it was of course to protect them.	他没告诉他们当然是为了保护他们
He made false papers for persecuted black South Africans.	他为受迫害的南非黑人伪造文件
He told me that he would have been unable to witness or submit to injustice without doing anything.	他说他无法对非正义行为视而不见
My father is here in the room today.	我的父亲今天就在这个房间
Well, the evidence is, unfortunately, ample.	证据是，不幸的是，太多了。
Do we have evidence of this? Yes, coral reef systems.	我们有证据吗？是的，珊瑚礁系统。
These include, of course, climate.	这包括了，当然的，气候。
We're not doing that at any scale on governance.	我们不在任何政府层面上完成。
The Australian Great Barrier Reef is another success story.	澳大利亚大堡礁是另一个成功故事。
It has to basically do this on current land.	我们现今的土地正发挥这样的作用。
and then backtrack innovations within that.	正是危机背后推动的创新。
I was asked to come here and speak about creation.	我受邀来这里讲讲艺术创造。
Creativity is how we cope with creation.	创意就是我们如何理解创作。
The first works were actually objects.	最初的作品都是些实际的物体。
They lived in Brazil, long time ago.	很久以前，他们生活在巴西。
So I decided to do work with clouds.	所以我决定要用云彩创作。
Because clouds can mean anything you want.	因为云彩可以任凭你去想像。
And your eye doesn't know which level to read.	你的眼睛不知道该阅读哪一层次。
And you become trapped into this kind of representation.	最后你就被困在这种表现手法中。
But another layer of representation was still introduced.	还有一层表现手法要介绍给大家。
Approximately one letter in a hundred will differ from a chimpanzee.	大致每100个字母就会出现差异
Maybe a single individual is misclassified or so.	也许这是因为个别人被分错组了
They are what we just said -- facial features, hair structure, skin color.	这些都是面部特征毛发结构肤色
Does it match one African or the other African?	它是否与其中一个非洲人相匹配
Presumably, modern humans emerged somewhere in Africa.	现代人被认为最早出现在非洲
What do we know about the future?	我们知道多少未来的事儿？
It takes only one and a half days to cross the Atlantic Ocean.	它只需一个半就能横渡大西洋。
These are the future anthropometrics.	这与未来人体测量学息息相关。
So this airplane has no windows anymore, for example.	例如，这架飞机已经没有窗户了。
So this is a bracket of an A380 crew rest compartment.	这是一个A380机组休息舱结构。
And nature builds large skeletons out of it.	自然在它的基础上生成了大骨架。
And the same approach can be applied to technology as well.	这种方法也能运用到技术上。
And you've got trillions of them.	有上万亿个这样的纳米管。
We intuit other people's feelings.	我们凭直觉理解别人的感受
We're always in this stance of being the object of somebody else's subjectivity.	我们总是别人主观意识里的客体
You see, babies are born in a state of utter fragility.	大家都知道,婴儿生来是很脆弱的
We always think about autism as something that happens later on in life.	我们总以为自闭症是后天形成的
Well, this is a little 15-month-old little girl, and she has autism.	有个15个月大的小女孩她有自闭症
You'd do probably two things, wouldn't you?	你很有可能会有种反应,对吧?
Now remember that we learn a great deal by sharing experiences.	我们能从分享经验当中学到很多东西
Well, this is much more prevalent than we thought at the time.	自闭症如今要更普遍得多，
The societal cost of this condition is huge.	社会为此而消耗的成本极大
We had to see the world through her eyes.	我们要从她的眼睛看世界。
What are the children with autism doing?	而自闭症的孩子在做什么呢？
It starts way up here, but then it's a free fall.	刚开始很高，然后就一直下降。
We want them to be free of that.	我们希望他们也能自由施展，
You didn't really want to jump, but you want out.	你不是真的想跳下去你只是想离开
And of course, you're responding with all of these.	当然，你要对这些做出回答
If you're an inboard personnel, stand up.	如果你是内舱的人员，站起来。
You fall outside the door, you're caught in the slipstream.	你从舱门掉下去你被气流接住
Now you prepare for the inevitable.	现在你要为不可避免的事情做准备
It's this elegant little land, twist and roll.	这是一个优雅轻微的着陆，连翻代转
I always landed like a watermelon out of a third floor window.	我总是像在3楼扔下的西瓜一样降落
And I was hooked again on the importance of what I did.	我再次被我做的事情的重要性迷住了
But things had changed; I was a 46-year-old brigadier general.	但是很多东西改变了我是46岁准将
And I still believe real leaders are like that.	而我一直相信领导者就是这样的
And I had an armored organization at that point.	当时我拥有一个有装甲的团队
I walked out feeling as low as a snake's belly in a wagon rut.	我走出来后感觉自己非常愚蠢
I have to have trust in them and vice versa.	我需要相信他们，反之亦然
And that's a new kind of leadership for me.	这是新型的领导能力对于我来说
And yet, we need to have that shared sense.	我们现在需要一个有共享的意识
And it's a brand new leadership challenge.	这是领导层遇到的崭新挑战
And yet, again, you're not all in one room.	而且，你们并不在一个屋子里
There's an effect on you and on your leaders.	会影响你和你们这些领导者
There's an impact, it's cumulative.	这是有影响的，而且是累积的
And I remembered his son was in our force.	我记得他的儿子在我们的部队中
And he said, "Sir, he's fine. Thanks for asking."	他说，"他很好，多谢问候。"
I probably learned the most about relationships.	在怎样处理人的关系上我学到了很多
And it's not a mindless mantra, and it's not a poem.	这不是一个愚蠢的咒语也不是一首诗
Think about it. It's extraordinarily powerful.	想象一下。这是绝对的有力量
It's probably more powerful than marriage vows.	这甚至比结婚的誓言更加有力量
You can get knocked down, and it hurts and it leaves scars.	你可能被击败它会痛留下伤疤
Now, what does this mean to some of you?	现在，这些对于你们有什么意义呢？
What can artwork say about this?	对此，艺术品可以表达什么？
It's why I ask questions of art.	这是我为可质疑艺术的原因。
It is why I make exhibitions.	这是我为何举办展览的原因。
What do I think about when I think about art?	当我思考艺术的时候我想到了什么？
That's understandable and important.	这是可以理解的，也是重要的
The key components are already widely available.	主要的组成部分已经广泛存在
Well, that's kind of an obvious statement up there.	嗯，这好像是个显而易见的观点。
Make yourself understood to the computer."	你们设法让电脑知道你们在说什么"
And I said, "I don't know, actually."	我说，"其实我也不知道。"
So they could do that on their own.	所以他们可以靠自己完成。
And he couldn't travel, so I went over there.	因他无法旅行，所以我到他那里去。
And he said, "Yes, and they hop across the ocean."	他说，"是的，它们会跨越海洋。"
They'd say, "This is very boring."	他们会说，"这很无聊。"
This is what these children are doing.	这是这些孩子正在做的东西。
I wanted to test the limits of the system.	我想测试这个系统的极限。
It's all in English, and I'm going.	它们全部是英文的，我走了。
They said, "We look at it every day."	他们说，"我们每天都看。"
Well, one of the girls had taught herself to become the teacher.	其中一个女孩自学成为教师。
Remember, they don't study English.	不要忘记，她们没学英文。
I said, "You make your own groups of four.	我说，"你们自己分成四组。
I said, "Well, let's try it.	我说，"那让我们来试试这个吧。
You know, stuff which I don't know anything about.	你知道，这些东西我一点也不懂。
The mediator is from Pune, India.	这个中间人来自印度的[]。
I started writing English questions on the blackboard.	我开始在黑板上写英语问题。
The children looked at it and said, "What?"	孩子们看了以后说，"什么？"
I tried a really hard one then.	然后我试了一个很难的问题。
Who was Pythagoras, and what did he do?	毕达哥拉斯是谁，他做了什么？
But in the meanwhile, there is a method available.	但现在，有一个方法是有效的。
And I thought I was alone in the dark under this tree.	我以为漆黑的树下只有我一个人
But somehow, it didn't matter about the publicity.	不知为何，这个表演既不是公开的
The village square was filled with hundreds of people.	小小的乡村广场上挤满了几百号人
The circle. The circle. It's so obvious.	答案是圆，就是圆，显而易见
The circle of life comes in the wheels of the gazelles that leap.	生命的圆伴随着跳跃的瞪羚一起出现
I love the apparent truth of theater.	我热爱剧院里这个浅显的事实
I love that people are willing to fill in the blanks.	我热爱人们乐意自行脑补空白
You suspended these pieces. You let it fall flat on the floor.	先放平在舞台上，然后用绳子吊着，
And in a way, that is what makes it spiritual.	某种程度上这种象征性精神上的太阳
It's not the actual literal sunrise that's coming.	那个场景并不是真正的日出
And I'm one who loves high tech and low tech.	我是个既爱高科技也爱低科技的人
Manhattan in the show is not bound by gravity either.	戏里的曼哈顿也摆脱了地心引力
It's real, what's happening.	那些真实的，正在发生的事情
Well, one last story, very quickly.	好吧，最后一个故事，很快就讲完
To my right is sheer shale. It's coming off.	而我右边是正在脱落陡峭的页岩层
I'm in the crucible right now.	我现在就在经历严酷的考验
It's my company's trials by fire.	这是烈火给我的公司的试炼
Motor racing is a funny old business.	赛车是一项充满乐趣的经典运动。
And then the next year, we start again.	然后第二年，重新开始这个过程。
Now, the car you see in front of you is quite complicated.	你现在看到的这辆车是非常复杂的。
So motor racing is very much about attention to detail.	所以赛车运动需要非常注重细节。
We're always trying to make it faster.	我们持续性的改进它使它更快。
Well, we start our life with the racing car.	我们的改进过程从比赛开始。
It's measuring all sorts of things around the car.	它们记录赛车运行时的所有数据。
You need to be able to do something with it.	你需要利用这些数据做出点什么。
Okay, so let's have a look at a little bit of data.	现在，让我们看看一眼原始数据。
This was a heart attack that no one could see coming.	没有人预见到这次心脏病发作。
Was this a predictable event?	这个事件可以用来预测么？
And then we started looking at the data.	然后我们开始分析这些数据。
We think that the race is on to do something differently.	我们在这场比赛中需要打破常规。
We are thinking big. It's the right thing to do.	我们目标远大，我们在做正确的事。
It can go beyond the walls.	它可以有更广的使用范围。
But they wouldn't give me an answer.	不过她们不会给我一个答复。
The first is that dignity is more important to the human spirit than wealth.	第一点就是尊严比财富更可贵。
They're in a joint venture with Sumitomo.	他们与住友集团是合资企业。
It's a company with one big customer.	这间公司只有一个巨大的客源。
She was very much like those women sitting behind the sewing machines.	她很像那些坐在缝纫机背后的妇女。
Some of you may recognize this image.	在座可能有人认得这个画面。
This is the opening frame of the video that we created.	这就是我们制作的视频开场。
And we sort of started talking about what it is that they wanted.	接着我们开始谈到他们的具体要求。
It included an exterior loading dock.	它包括一个外部装卸支架。
The machine itself would start the music.	第六，机器自己会开始播放歌曲。
So what did we learn from all of this?	那么我们从中学到了什么呢？
These are all things that ended up not making it into the final machine.	这些都是没有入选最终成品的部分。
Again, small to large is relevant here.	这就与小件到大件的安排有关了。
I mean, "Curiosity" -- excuse me.	我说的是，"奇珍"--不好意思。
That one's pretty good. It's getting better.	刚才那段还不错。有进步。
Okay? Let's go and find the elephant.	没问题吧？让我们开始寻找大象吧。
And they're scientific models?	还有他们是科学模特儿吗？
Well, let's think about the drug screening process for a moment.	好，让我们先来看看药物检验的流程
Let's see how we can do it with tissue engineering.	我们来看看，组织工程学能做些什么
It would be like having a clinical trial on a chip.	就好像在晶片上面进行临床试验
This is unprecedented, and it's big.	这是前所未有的，这是巨大的数量。
Let me just rush very quickly through things that we've done.	让我快速地过一遍我们完成的事情。
Here's a giant flying replica of a pterosaur that has no tail.	这是仿制了一个大型的无尾翼龙。
The modern sailplane is superbly efficient.	现代的滑翔机超级的高效。
some things he showed as a celebration at the very end.	他展示了一个最终的庆典仪式。
PM: But now we're trying to get the video. There we go.	但现在我们试一下影像。好了。
If this hits you, it will not hurt you.	假如这个撞到你，它不会伤害你。
But there's a lot of technology going.	但是背后运用了大量的技术。
And so where it all goes, I don't know.	那么未来会是怎样，我不知道。
The tube there's hollow, about paper-thin.	管子中空，大约纸张一样薄。
So, be gentle, just act like a wooden Indian or something.	所以，温柔一点，请小心翼翼对待。
We consider this to be sort of the spirit of TED.	我们把这看做TED精神的一种。
So I think that, as a symbol, it's important.	所以我想那标志了它很重要。
What you've heard is true.	你们所耳闻的都是真实的。
That'd be like trying to put a square peg through a round hole."	就像是想让方枘穿过圆孔一样。"
You can keep sitting here with us.	你可以继续在这和我们坐在一起。
I fell in love with mathematics from the earliest of ages.	我很早的时候就已经爱上了数学。
It's natural. It's everywhere.	它很自然,而且无处不在。
The great Descartes said something quite similar.	伟大的笛卡尔曾经说过类似的话。
They keep going on forever.	它们持续不断得增大下去。
Over thousands of years ago, he proved that for us.	一千多年前，他就为我们证明了它。
Today we're going to hunt for that massive prime.	今天我们将去寻觅那个巨大的质数。
A random odd number is a lot harder to test.	一个随机的奇数检验起来要难得多。
After that point, they thin out a lot.	在那之后，它们就变得稀疏了很多。
Word up, L-Dog.	你太厉害了，我的卢卡斯朋友。
A frisson of excitement went around the room.	一阵激动的情绪充满了整个屋子。
He admitted afterwards it wasn't that hard to do.	他后来承认那做起来并不那么难。
It took focus. It took dedication.	那需要专注。那需要付出。
It was a tough decision. I loved university.	那是个很难的抉择。我爱大学。
But I came to a realization about my own ability.	但是我最终意识到了我自己的能力。
It is in telling the story of the mathematics.	我的强项是讲述数学故事。
Here's a machine doing something cool.	这有个能做一些很酷的事情的机器。
I've clearly got mass. Where does it come from?	我显然是有质量的。它来自哪里？
We've got no idea if we could ever prove it.	但我们不知道能否证明它。
But the Tasmanian devil population has been undergoing a really extremely fast decline.	但袋獾数量呈急速下降的趋势
Of course, they died along with the mother.	毫无疑问，小袋獾和妈妈一起死掉了
He's a Tasmanian devil that we found with a large tumor on his face.	我们发现它的脸上有一个大肿瘤
But how can a cancer spread in a population?	那一个癌症是怎么在群体中扩散的？
We think that cancer cells actually come off the tumor, get into the saliva.	我们认为癌细胞从肿瘤进入唾液
So this Tasmanian devil cancer is perhaps the ultimate cancer.	所以袋獾癌症可能是终极版癌症
And if you're squeamish, please look away now.	如果你比较敏感，请转头看别处
It's a living relic of the distant past.	这是从遥远上古活下来的遗迹
So we've seen that this can happen in animals.	我们了解到动物感染的情况
Could cancers be contagious between people?	那在人类间传播的癌症呢？
What this tells us, ethical issues aside, is that ...	这告诉我们不追究道德问题的话就是
it's probably extremely rare for cancers to be transferred between people.	是人之间传播的癌症是非常罕见的
However, under some circumstances, it can happen.	但是，在某些情况下仍然可能发生
My personal aim is to defeat the Tasmanian devil cancer.	我的个人目标是打败袋獾癌症
So if we're married, we're more likely to have kids.	结婚之后很可能会生孩子。
And I'm not alone.	我不是唯一一个这样想的人。
The first one is getting along well with others.	第一个是和他人和睦相处。
We can't all be better than everyone else.	不可能所有人都比其他人优秀。
People with low expectations do the opposite.	期望值低的人的思维正好相反。
They were willing to pay extra in order to wait.	他们愿意为等待承担额外的费用。
And that anticipation enhances their wellbeing.	这种期待会提高他们的生活质量。
They're actually more realistic than healthy individuals.	事实上，他们比健康的人更加现实。
But individuals with severe depression, they have a pessimistic bias.	但是严重抑郁的人有悲观偏见。
So they tend to expect the future to be worse than it ends up being.	所以他们眼中的未来比实际更糟糕。
But this is not what we find.	然而我们的发现却不是这样。
So, for example, what is your likelihood of suffering from cancer?	比如，你得癌症的几率是多大？
So they learned quickly and efficiently.	所以他们快速高效的接受了信息。
But they didn't think that those numbers were related to them.	但他们不认为这些数据与自己有关。
So let's see what happens.	现在我们来看看接下来发生了什么。
First of all, I'm going to show you the average amount of bias that we see.	首先，这是一般的偏见水平。
We made people more biased in the way that they process information.	我们加重了人们处理信息时的偏见。
And I believe there's a way for us to do that.	我相信我们可以做到这一点。
The technology was there.	因为技术已经发展到了这个阶段。
Now the problem is that we're not thinking about it in very innovative ways.	可问题是我们对此的看法不够新。
The tectonic plates of world politics were shifting.	全球政治格局的板块正在发生转变。
There are often bumps along the road, accidents along the way.	历史进程经常出现曲折和突发事件。
Why does it matter? Who cares?	为什么这一点很重要？谁会在乎？
Notice both halves of that explanation.	注意这前后这两部分的原因。
China's not going to replace the U.S. on this military board.	中国在军事这盘棋还不能取代美国。
Wars persist. Power persists.	战争已就存在，权利依旧存在。
And in the 21st century, you have to do an analog to that.	在21世界，我们应该以史为鉴，
The record on post-conflict recovery is not very impressive.	这方面的记录并不是很好。
In fact, they've accounted for half of all civil wars.	实际上，他们占了所有内战的一半。
So, the first thing that is prioritized is politics.	所以，首先被给予优先的是政治，
Try and build a political settlement first.	即应该先试着从政治角度解决。
So, short-term peacekeepers.	因此，第二个原则就是短期维和。
That will produce a legitimate and accountable government.	通过选举产生一个合法负责的政府。
I think that approach denies reality.	我认为这种方法是在否认现实。
We see that there is no quick fix.	我们很明白根本不可能速战速决。
There's certainly no quick security fix.	根本也不可能短期就实现维和。
And they stay high regardless of the political innovations.	并且不因政治革新而减低。
The reality is that we need to reverse the sequence.	实际上，我们应该调换一下顺序，
It's not the politics first; it's actually the politics last.	政治不应该排第一，而应该是最后。
Why does the politics get easier?	为什么政治会变的更容易呢？
And why is it so difficult initially?	还有，为什么原来那么困难？
And in order to build prosperity, we need security in place.	要重建繁荣，安全措施就要到位。
It is a cost-effective approach.	是一种低成本高效率的方法，
It does increase security.	能切实提高社会的安全度。
That's one actor, the Security Council.	这是安全委员会这个角色。
And there are two key things it's got to do.	有两件重要的事是它必须要做的。
It's got to reform economic policy.	它要做的是革新经济政策。
The inclusion agenda doesn't come from elections.	这个吸纳计划不是通过选举产生——
Elections produce a loser, who is then excluded.	选举产生的是失败者，要排除在外。
And so we need a post-conflict compact.	而我们需要的就是冲突后约定。
And now let me turn to the second approach, which is complimentary.	下面我要讲的是第二个补充办法，
And that is to focus on a few critical objectives.	即专注于实现几个关键目标。
Jobs for whom? Especially jobs for young men.	让谁就业？首要是年轻男人。
It's because young men get upset.	而是因为年轻男人不安分。
Now, that is difficult.	而要做到这一点，是不容易的。
During conflict people are doing destruction.	冲突时，人们是破坏建筑，
Secondly you need skills, the mundane skills of the construction sector.	其次需要技术，建筑业必须的技术。
So we need to encourage the growth of local firms.	那就要鼓励发展地方企业。
Lets develop line ministries of this, that, and the other, that deliver these services.	设立这样那样的部来提供这些服务。
They want to have the discipline and accountability.	他们希望有纪律性和责任制。
Clean means follow their money.	"廉洁"指的是追踪钱的去处。
It's captured by the crooks who are at the heart of the political problem.	被那些侵蚀政府的蛀虫给利用了，
Half the city is already below sea level.	一半的城市都已经低于海平面了。
Sure, some are looking for opportunities in this new world.	是的，有人在寻找新世界的机遇。
We need better planning and systems for evacuation.	我们需要更好的疏散计划和系统。
The stability this provides is giving the farmers the confidence to invest.	这让那些农民坚定了投资的信心。
It's giving them access to affordable credit.	向他们提供可负担的贷款。
That's where half of Vietnam's rice is grown.	那里是越南一半粮食的产地。
Airports around the world are located on the coast.	通往全世界的机场就建立在这里
Why? Well, there are no experts.	为什么？因为就没有所谓的专家。
Or manias can be deadly.	有时狂热也可以是致命的。
The world has a new mania.	现在世界上有一种新的狂热。
25 percent of her grade is based on English.	其中25%的成绩是由英语决定的
And now English is becoming the language of problem-solving.	现在，英语正在成为解决问题的语言
Or are we on the verge of all being gifted?	还有，我们现代人算不算是天才呀?
He talked to the head man of a person in rural Russia.	他采访了俄罗斯农村的一位首领。
A crow can peck at a fish.	一只乌鸦可以啄食一条鱼。
And Luria said, "At the North Pole, there is always snow.	罗瑞亚说，"北极呢，总是有雪的。
What color are the bears at the North Pole?"	那么在北极的熊是什么颜色?"
None of these problems are real.	所有这些问题都不是真正的问题呀。
You can't do science without proposing hypotheses.	提不出假说也不能搞科研；
You can't do science without making it logically consistent.	没有逻辑上的一致性也没法搞科研。
So the tenor of education has changed.	所以说，教育的进程已经改变。
Only three percent were lawyers or doctors or teachers.	只有3％的人是律师、医生和教师。
The professions have been upgraded.	这些专业行业本身也已经升级换代。
But he did have a sense that black people were inferior.	但他确实觉得黑人是劣等的。
And he would say, well that's not in the Koran.	他会说，古兰经没有记载那些东西，
That's not one of the principles I've got.	那不是我信奉的信条之一。
Well you, today, universalize your principles.	那么今天，你应该把信条广义化。
But I don't want to end on a pessimistic note.	但，我不想用悲观的基调做结语。
I've been so impressed by the kindness expressed to me.	人们的友善几乎让我印象深刻
But let me get to the talk -- I see the clock is running.	但让我开始吧--时钟开始跑了
She's a technology leader and instructional leader.	她是技术领导者和教学领导者
And I'd like to think of it as a 21st century wisdom table, really.	我喜欢把它想做是21世纪的智慧桌
I was a young man, and I had been dropping in and out of college.	当时我很年轻在大学里进进出出
And so they pleaded with me to get a degree in something.	于是他们请求我完成某个大学学位
Gifted education hadn't really taken hold too much.	当时并没有什么有关特殊教育的教材
He proposed the film to me -- it's a great title.	他向我提出拍摄计划－很棒的名字
But the film has really gone places.	但这电影远远超过我的想像
My father, very inventive, spatial thinker.	我爸爸，一个非常有创造性的思想家
And so this World Peace Game I'd like to tell you about.	我想和你们谈谈的这个世界和平游戏
They have different assets, commercial and military.	他们有不同的资产，商业或军师上的
There's a World Bank, arms dealers and a United Nations.	里头有世界银行、军火商和联合国
And they've done it several times too.	而且他们已经解决好几次了
I'm just a clarifier. I'm just a facilitator.	解释问题，促进游戏进行顺利
The students run the game.	学生们控制游戏里的所有细节
You're actually getting taught something like how to take care of the world.	在其中你可以学习如何解决世界问题
Well when we have the game start, here's what you see.	游戏开始的时候，它是这个样子
To her girlfriends she said that.	"我知道我自己在做什么"
Had they had their fuel supplies, they would have done it.	如果它们握有石油，就可以达成计划
"Let's ask that mom to read the letter.	"我们让那个妈妈来读这封信，
So we did, we asked her, and she gamely picked up the letter.	于是我们问了她，她很配合地拿起信
"Sure." She started reading. She read one sentence.	"好的。"她开始读，她读了一句
And it was an amazing occurrence and an amazing understanding.	这件事的发生和众人的理解都很神奇
I'll show you what my friend David says about this.	你们可以看看我朋友大卫怎么说
I mean, we've been lucky [most of] the time.	虽然大部分时候我们都很幸运
JH: I get chills every time I see that.	每次我看那个影片，我就打冷颤
Some are poor, some are wealthy. There are billions.	有些贫穷，有些富有。有好几亿。
But he was setting fiscal policy in that game for high school players who were playing with him.	他在为其它高中玩家设立财政政策
They were gesticulating; they were running around.	他们打着手势，满教室乱跑
But I don't try to deny them that reality of being human.	但我从不剥夺他们身为人的真实状态
I've been making toys for the last 30 years.	过去三十年，我一直在制作玩具。
The early '70s, I was in college.	七十年代早期的时候我还在学校。
The National Movement of India was testimony to that.	印度国民运动就是一个很好的例子
The slogan of the early '70s was "Go to the people.	70年代早期的口号是"走近百姓，
Live with them; love them.	与他们一起生活，关爱他们。
And it was a turning point.	我的人生就在这里改变了。
So I said, "I'm going to spend a year over here."	我说，"我将要在这儿过一年呢！"
And one thing which I found was this black rubber.	其中我就发现了这个炭黑橡胶
When you pump in air in a bicycle, you use a bit of this.	给自行车打气的时候，你会用到它
You can just pull this out, this becomes a rectangle.	我们把这个拉出来，它就成了矩形
This becomes an isosceles triangle -- again, very shaky.	它可以变成等腰三角形还是很不稳定
This square might look very square and prim.	这个方形可能看上去很方很整齐
Give it a little push -- this becomes a rhombus.	轻轻推一下它，就变成了菱形
So you make all these 3D shapes.	这样一来我们又有了所有立体图形
I see hope. I see happiness in their faces.	我看见希望，我看见他们脸上的幸福
Now this, we make lots and lots of pumps.	现在，我们做了很多很多泵
And this is how you make a valve.	这就是如何做好一个阀门的
Well we make lots and lots of pumps.	我们还做非常多非常多的泵
Well in terms of -- if you were in Andhra Pradesh, you would make this with the palmyra leaf.	假使你她会用棕榈叶来做这个
If you spin-top something, it tends to fly out.	如果你旋转某物，它就会飞起来
The insects are eaten by the frogs; the frogs are eaten by the snakes; the snakes are eaten by the eagles.	昆虫被青蛙吃，青蛙被蛇吃蛇被鹰吃
Now this is a pencil with a few slots over here.	这是一只铅笔，上面有一些凹槽
There have been six major research papers on this.	目前为止关于它已经有六篇重要论文
There's some grooves over here, you can see.	你还能在这儿看到一些凹线
He wrote a paper on this.	然后他就写了一篇关于它的论文
Now this is the simplest motor on Earth.	这是世界上最简易的电动机
Whenever current flows through the coil, this becomes an electromagnet.	当电流经过线圈，它就成了电磁铁
When teachers make it, children make it.	如果老师来做这个，孩子们也做这个
You can see a gleam in their eye.	你就能看见他们眼里闪着的光
And we're just trying to see possibilities.	我们正试图去看看这可行性。
I'm going to keep this outside, to blow out. I'm going to suck in air.	我把这个留在外面。我将要吸气。
If I crank the handle, all the wool goes inside.	当我转动手柄时，毛线会被转进去
And what a blind child can do is to just draw this.	一个盲童就可以用这个来画画
There are no patents. Anyone can make it.	没有专利，所有人都能制造它
You can see, this is the generator. It's a crank generator.	你看，这是一个发电机，曲柄发电机
So this is a small crank generator.	这个就是小型的曲柄发电机
And this is -- you can see -- this is a flapping bird.	你看这个这个是一只正拍着翅膀的鸟
All of our old newspapers, we cut them into little squares.	我们把旧报纸都分割成小正方形
And the captain would wear a cap everyday and join in the regalia.	船长每天都带着一顶帽子穿着船长服
The first day, it was a huge umbrella cap, like a captain's cap.	第一天是很大的伞帽就像船长帽一样
It's been catapulted to international glory.	它在国际上也已经很出名了
And now the end: everyone was enjoying the journey very much.	现在结局来了大家都享受这次旅程
Suddenly there was a storm and huge waves.	突然间，暴风雨和巨浪袭来
A huge wave comes and slaps the front and knocks it down.	一个巨浪打中船头并把它打了下来
The nearest we've come is with aramid fiber.	最接近这种特性的要算是芳纶纤维
It does suggest we've still got a bit to learn.	它说明了我们还有东西可学
Firstly, radical increases in resource efficiency.	第一，提高基本资源使用效率
The next move was that we wanted to try and maximize the size of those hexagons.	下一步是我们想要把六边形做到最大
Nature works very differently.	但大自然的法则不是这样的
It was ending up in landfills.	这些废弃物最后都会被扔到垃圾场
And I'm just going to talk through this animation.	我利用这个动画跟你们解释
So they were paid to collect it from the restaurants.	他们负责从餐厅回收这些纸板
Some of you may recognize this.	你们有些人可能认得这个地方
And those bumps are hydrophilic; they attract water.	而那些突起物具有亲水性，能吸引水
So our energy problems are not intractable.	如果这样我们的能源问题就不棘手
CSP produces a lot of waste heat.	太阳能源应用技术则产生大量的热能
The idea is we create this long hedge of greenhouses facing the wind.	我们会在迎风处建造一大片的温室
You can also compress that into a building block, as they did here.	也是可以压缩做成砖块就像这里
Now we would be able to make use of all that waste brine.	现在我们能够利用的所有的废卤水
So if I have two possible strategies at this point I'm sort of figuring out.	这时候我有两个办法我发现
So I just copied and pasted from my résumé.	所以我直接把简历复制粘贴上去
There was this guy Steve, the I.T. guy.	其中有一位叫史蒂夫的技术男
And that was my entire month's rent.	而那是我整整一个月的房租
So needless to say, I was not having a good night.	不用说我那天晚上很不好受
And they say to me, "Stop complaining."	之后她们对我说"别抱怨了"
Do you like horror films or romance films?	爱看惊悚片还是爱情片？之类的问题
So what I did was, I went through and I prioritized that list.	接下来着我整理出优先次序
These things were also important to me but not necessarily deal-breakers.	这些对我同样重要但不是必不可少
He likes to travel as long as it doesn't involve a cruise ship.	而且他喜欢旅行只要没有游船就好
So I created 10 fake male profiles.	接着我建立了10个虚拟的男士档案
I didn't carry on crazy Catfish-style relationships with anybody.	我并没有借此进行任何不道德的交流
Also, optimistic language matters a lot.	还有积极正面的语言很重要
All of the women who were popular showed some skin.	所有受欢迎女性都会露一些
And as it turns out, lots and lots of men wanted to date me.	后来特别特别多男人想和我约会
So I call my mom, I call my sister, I call my grandmother.	我又打电话给妈妈姐姐和姥姥
How soon are you going out?"	"什么时候开始约会呀？"
He talked in detail about travel.	他详谈了很多关于旅行的事
Well, as it turns out, there is an algorithm for love.	事实可以证明爱有计算规则
Most parents would find that great.	大多数家长们都会倍感欣慰。
There may be vision scientists among you.	也许你们中有人是视觉方面的专家，
And it's better in two different ways.	他们视力好体现在两个方面。
I'm actually going to give you an example of how we do so.	我将带给大家一个测量的例子。
Right? So this is the first example.	明白了吗？马上是第一个例子。
Okay, you get my point, right?	大家明白我做这个游戏的意思了吧？
That's for you guys, action video game players.	轮到你们大显神通了，游戏玩家们。
Right? So these kinds of results really makes two main points.	这样的结果主要说明了两个问题。
That's the point of rehabilitation or education.	这也是医疗康复和教育的重点。
Third. Good! This is hard, right?	第三个。很好！这有点难是吗？
They don't play 10 hours of action games in a row.	不是连续玩十个小时而是分散地玩，
Well, we're working on it, but here is a challenge.	我们在努力，但是有一个挑战。
Who really wants to eat chocolate-covered broccoli?	有谁会想吃沾着巧克力的花椰菜吗？
But what about the space of all possible programs?	然而所有程序的空间又有多少呢？
Let's just do a little mathematical experiment, try and find out.	来做个小的数学实验，试着找出规律
You can see a lot of diversity in the behavior here.	你能看到这里有各种各样的图案模式
Things with rules as simple as these can do it.	有如此简单规则的东西能达此目的
We could ask it something about the real world.	我们可以问他一些现实生活的事情
You know, we have a fairly interesting situation right now.	我们现在处于一个很有意思的状态
But it's something that is very precise stuff.	不过，这是非常精准的东西
So what happens when you put these things together?	如果把他们放一起，会发生什么呢？
I'll show you one example here.	我来展示一个例子，例如这个
This is just an example of one of these computable documents.	这只是可计算文档的其中一个样例
There's an inexhaustible supply of programs out there.	有无穷无尽的程序资源在那儿。
The challenge is to see how to harness them for human purposes.	面临的挑战是如何让它们供人类使用
So, will we find the whole of physics?	所以，我们将会发现整个物理学吗？
That's one of the ways that you get towards true complexity.	那也是一种方法来到达真正的复杂。
We all know about the miracle of miniaturization.	我们都见识过微型化技术的神奇
This is a microfluidic chip that I developed.	这就是我发明的一种微流体芯片
They jump high. They wear red.	他们跳的高，他们穿戴红色。
You might be wondering, who are these people?	你也许在嘀咕，这些人是谁呀？
The Maasais, the boys are brought up to be warriors.	马赛人，男孩们长大都是勇士。
And whenever he came home, it was a different case.	他回家的时候，就不同了。
When I went to school, I had a dream.	在我就学时，有一个梦想。
They wear nice dresses, high-heeled shoes.	她们穿的漂亮，穿高跟鞋。
So I talked -- I had to come up with a plan to figure these things out.	我必须有个计划把这个事情处理好。
It was a shameful thing for him to carry the rest of his life.	余生要背负这污名是非常丢脸的
It's a whole week long of excitement.	那个兴奋劲持续一星期之长。
There was a woman sitting in the middle of it, and this woman was waiting to hold us.	有个女人做在中间，在等着我们
As you can imagine, I bled. I bled.	你可以想象，我血一直流，流呀。
Three weeks later, I was healed, and I was back in high school.	三周后，我康复了，回去上高中。
There is something about clothes, I think, and shoes.	我觉得，这些衣服，和鞋子很特别。
And he told me, "Well, what do you mean, you want to go?	他回答"你说你想去是什么意思？"
Don't you have a husband waiting for you?"	"你的丈夫不是在等你吗？"
And I told him, "Don't worry about that part.	我跟他说，"别担心那个。"
Just tell me how to get there."	"只要告诉我怎么去就好。"
While I was in high school also, my dad was sick.	我上高中的时候，我爸爸生病了。
The first thing he sees when he opens his door is, it's me.	他早上看到的第一样东西，就是我。
I was in a land of plenty.	我到达了一片富饶的土地。
I learned that it was against the law in Kenya.	我得知那在肯尼亚是违法的。
I learned that my mom had a right to own property.	我得知我妈妈有权拥有财产。
That made sense. And they agreed.	挺合理的，他们就同意了。
That's Sharon. That's five years later.	这是Sharon。这是5年后。
You are somebody who wants to see a better world.	你们想看到一个更美好的世界。
You are somebody who wants to see that war ends, no poverty.	你们想看到战争结束，贫困消失。
Be bold. Stand up. Be fearless. Be confident.	勇敢些，担责任，不畏惧，有信心。
We've questioned the future of capitalism.	我们质疑过资本主义的未来。
We've questioned the financial industry.	我们也对金融业产生过怀疑。
We've questioned where we're going.	我们对未来的方向感到迷茫。
I'm calling this The Great Unwind.	我们把它称之为一场"大松绑"。
Do you know what this was right here?	你知道这个地方是啥时候吗？
So consumers got overleveraged.	于是消费者们过度杠杆化了，
This is an absolutely staggering chart.	这是一副十足惊人的图表，
However, consumers have moved.	但是，消费者开始行动了，
So we're starting to pay for things with money that we have.	我们开始用手头的钱买东西，
It's been pretty staggering, what we've lived through.	我们所经历的真的很奇怪。
And so, as a result, some crazy things have happened.	同时，一些疯狂的事情发生了。
We found a couple of really interesting things.	我们发现了一些相当有趣的事情。
We see high-end haggling in fashion today.	今天我们看到上流社会的高价议价，
High-end haggling for luxury and real estate.	豪宅和不动产的高价议价。
Really interestingly, too, was the San Francisco Giants.	同样有趣的是，旧金山巨人队
So micropayments have become huge.	因此,小额支付也变成巨大的负担，
We see that play itself out with empathy and respect.	我们透过道德和尊重监视竞争。
We also talked about character and professionalism.	我们也谈论到人格和专业特质，
Also a really interesting company is Gore-Tex.	另一个有趣的公司Gore-Tex
The highest percentage ever in our nation's history.	在我们国家历史最高纪录。
Continuing education is up.	继续学习成为更多人的选择。
So, people are getting their hands dirty. They are rolling up their sleeves.	这样，人们卷起柚子,弄脏双手，
Perfect example of that is Patagonia.	最佳的例子是Patagonia
Or the interesting company SunRun.	或另一个有趣的公司SunRun
Trust is not parceled out, as we all know.	我们都知道,信任无法被分配，
Also this rise of local currencies.	因此本地货币也出现并发展。
This is all the opportunity about being a community organizer.	到处都有机会去成为社群组织者，
You have to realize that you can't fight and control this.	你必须意识到你不能对抗和控制它。
You need to harness it. You need to give it meaning.	你必须驾驭它,必须赋予它意义。
A phenomenal blog that's been built up.	他们建立了一个感性的博客，
It's been tremendously powerful for consumers.	它已经对消费者造成极大的冲击，
But, at the same time, this is also a tremendous opportunity.	但同时,这也是一个绝佳的机会。
And I asked myself, why?	我问我自己，这是为什么？
I felt shy, I felt embarrassed.	我感到害羞，我感到尴尬。
I know a woman who's good at this.	我认识一个精于此道的女士。
So, the question is, why was I blocking it?	因次我的问题是，为什么我不说呢？
I'm telling you where I'm insecure.	会让我告诉了你我内心的不安。
Or you could actually meet my need.	或者你可以满足我的要求。
I started writing fiction at the age of eight.	我从八岁开始小说的写作。
Now one other thing happened around this same time.	现在与此同时发生的另一件事。
And because God loves her, I did get married.	而且因为上帝爱她，我的确结婚了。
And I also understood that I would keep disappointing him.	并且，我也明白我会一直让他失望。
He wanted to see the manifestation of my identity.	他想看到我身份认同的体现。
Today, stories continue to transcend borders.	今天，故事继续越过国界。
Literature has to take us beyond.	文学带领着我们走向远方。
It's between buildings.	它就位于宏伟的建筑之间。
I like not knowing what will happen 10 pages later.	我希望不能预知十页后会发生什么。
I think it was a wonderful paradigm shift.	我认为这是个美妙的改变。
Now, "The Grey Album" is a remix.	好了，"灰色专辑"是混搭的，
It is new media created from old media.	它是从旧媒体造出的新媒体。
But I think these aren't just the components of remixing.	但我觉得这些不是只是复配的组件。
We'll do some side-by-side comparisons here.	我们要在这里做一些横向比较。
This is pretty typical among folk singers.	这在民间歌手中相当平常。
That is all there is to it. Apple has patented this.	就这么简单。苹果，这已获得专利。
Now, can someone own this idea?	现在，有人可以拥有这种想法吗？
"I'm willing to go thermonuclear war on this."	"我愿意就此开动热核战争"。
So here's the sort of equation we're looking at.	所以这是我们看着的等式。
Thank you so much. It was an honor to be here.	非常感谢。能够在这里是我的荣幸。
This is 26th, that's 27th."	这条是26街，那条是27街。"
You say, "Well, blocks don't have names.	你说，"街区是没有名字的。
He leaves, a little confused and disappointed.	他带着一点疑惑和失望离开了。
He said, "Well, easy, this is District Eight.	他说，"嗨，简单，这里是第八区，
The second house ever built is house number two.	第二所建造的房子是二号房屋。
You see there, it's about 620 billion a year.	你看，一年一共是6千2百亿英镑。
It's about 3.3 billion pounds per year out of 620 billion.	是6千2百亿英镑中的33亿英镑。
So it isn't in the series.	因此它没有在那个系列里面。
What's fascinating and beautiful ...	多么美丽，多么令人着迷——
That's one more picture of Enceladus.	又是一张恩克拉多斯卫星的照片。
This is when Cassini flew beneath Enceladus.	这是卡西尼号飞到它下面时拍的。
So below the ice, there's an ocean of liquid around the whole moon.	冰面之下，有着大量的液体。
It could be hundreds of kilometers deep, we think.	我们认为，可能有几百千米深。
So exploration can pay for itself.	所以说，探索项目可以养活自己。
Well, this looks like a picture of virtually nothing.	这张照片看上去什么也没有。
I just wanted to show this picture because this is remarkable.	我想要展示这张了不起的图片。
But look at the number of black lines in that spectrum.	但看看光谱图里黑线的数量。
And that's why helium's called helium.	这就是为什么氦元素叫做氦元素。
There's one more, I think, wonderful twist to that tale.	这个故事有了个奇妙的转折。
It's just one of billions of galaxies in the universe.	它只是宇宙中数十亿星系中的一个。
In fact, that one is a carbon-oxygen dwarf.	事实上，这颗就是白矮星。
It was taken by the Cassini space probe.	它是由卡西尼号太空探测器拍摄的。
It was a picture of Earth captured in that frame of Saturn.	那是土星的框架下拍摄到的地球。
And that's a picture of me in front of it for scale.	这是我站在它前面，作为尺寸对比。
The Voyager is a tiny machine.	旅行家号是个很小的机器。
He said, "Consider again that dot.	他说，"再看一下这个点吧。
Surely, we know enough.	是的，我们知道的足够多了。
We don't need to discover anything else about our universe.	我们不需要继续探索宇宙了。
The blue dots are the sites that I've actually navigated directly to.	蓝点是我实际上浏览过的站点。
I then go to a news site, look for some headlines.	然后去个新闻网站，看些头条新闻。
So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.	当然，我让她在网上查一查。
I look at this picture and it freaks me out.	我看着这张图片，大吃一惊。
Pretty simple -- it's huge business.	很简单——这是一笔很大的生意。
And as adults, we're certainly not alone.	更甚者，这并不是只针对成人的。
I move from this, from freaked out to enraged.	我看到这里，从惊讶转变为愤怒。
It's now time for us to watch the watchers.	但现在是我们监视它们的时候了。
And then I realized it was me, you know, and I kind of laughed.	之后我意识到是我自己，我笑了。
And the journey, I believe, is a metaphor for all of our journeys.	这个旅程象征着我们所有人的历程。
I didn't know about the environment then.	那时候我还小，还不知道环境问题。
I got up in the morning and I didn't say a word.	我早上起床，没有说一个字。
So on this first day I actually listened.	因此这才是我真正聆听的第一天。
"Oh, so you really want to go to school here?	噢，那你真地想来这里上学？
I said I'd be there in about two years.	我说我大约两年之内能到那里。
There are two stories in Montana.	在蒙大拿有两个关于我的故事。
"Well, you can't clearcut with a ..."	如果用一个，你不可能做到皆伐，
"No, I think he's talking about selective forestry."	不，我觉得他讲选择性林业。
What are you going to do with a master's degree?"	要不你拿这个硕士学位干什么呢？"
No one was interested in oil spills.	当时没有人对原油泄露感兴趣。
And that's communication.	而这才是真正意义上的交流。
"Yeah, I want to make a difference."	"是的，我想有所作为。"
"You're going to make a difference, buddy."	这样你就能有所作为了，朋友。"
And I said, "Well, I'm going to have to spread that message."	"我要把这个道理传播开来。"
The road turned into the jungle.	眼前的道路蜿蜒深入丛林。
I had no idea I would have a Ph.D.	我从没想过我会拿到博士学位。
Hunger is humiliation. Hunger is hopelessness.	饥饿让人感到羞耻丶感到绝望
I saw my father wither away and die.	我目睹父亲日渐衰弱直至死亡。
It was the biggest mistake I have ever made in my life.	那是我这辈子犯下的最大的错误。
I started to realize, begging would not be the solution.	我开始意识到，乞讨不会解决问题。
So I started to steal from food carts in illegal markets.	所以我开始去黑市偷食品车。
Sometimes, I found small jobs in exchange for food.	有时，我做小工来换粮食。
I don't mean big, grand hope.	我不是说什么大的宏伟的希望。
I realized I couldn't survive much longer this way.	我发现这样的话我不会活太久。
I thought more people would help me.	我以为更多的人会帮助我。
I was always worried about being caught and sent back.	我总是担心被抓到被遣送回国。
Even in North Korea, I was an F student.	即使在朝鲜，我学习一直都不及格。
And I barely finished elementary school.	而且我连小学都没有读完。
And I remember I fought in school more than once a day.	我记得我在学校每天至少打一次架。
Textbooks and the library were not my playground.	我对课本和图书馆毫无兴趣。
At one point, my father gave up on me.	有一次，我的父亲对我放弃了。
In North Korea, I made it myself.	在朝鲜，我自己活了下来。
I did not come here by myself.	我今天来着不是靠自己来的。
I had hope, but hope by itself is not enough.	我有希望，但是希望本身并不够。
Many people helped me along the way to get here.	一路上许多人帮助我到这里来。
Have hope for yourself, but also help each other.	给自己希望，但还要互相帮助。
I still haven't given up my hope to see you.	我仍然没有放弃看到你的希望。
And can I also make a small message to my mom?	我可以跟我的妈妈也说一句话吗？
Hi. I am an architect.	大家好！我是一位建筑设计师。
As you see it in the photo, inside is the toilet.	从照片上可以看到，里面是厕所。
My goal of the design is not when it's completed.	我的设计其目标并不在于建成，
Thank you. I had one big problem.	谢谢。当时我有个不小的问题。
Then I completed the Pompidou Center in Metz.	然后我完成了梅兹蓬皮中心的建造。
So that is why I started working in disaster areas.	因此我开始在灾难地区工作。
Two tribes, Hutu and Tutsi, fought each other.	胡图族和图西族两个部落互相残杀。
And he said, "Oh God, are you crazy?	他叫道，"哦天哪，你疯了么？
I was asked to rebuild the temporary church.	我受托重建这座临时教堂。
But it's really necessary to do it.	但是，事实证明立隔板是有必要的。
So I proposed to the mayor while I was making partitions.	所以我就边搭建隔板，边向市长提议
Many of the people want to stay here forever.	很多人都想永远待在这里。
Now I am working in New Zealand, Christchurch.	现在我在新西兰的克赖斯特彻奇工作
And in that spirit, I want to spring on you all a pop quiz.	对此我想给各位做个小测验
When does learning begin?	我们从什么时候开始学习？
Now this theory was of more than just intellectual interest to me.	我对这个理论不仅是知识上的兴趣
I was myself pregnant while I was doing the research for the book.	当我研究这本书的时候我怀孕了
First of all, they learn the sound of their mothers' voices.	首先他们会认知母亲的声音
How can we know this?	我们是怎么知道这一切的呢？
Now why would this kind of fetal learning be useful?	那么这些发现都有什么用呢？
It may have evolved to aid the baby's survival.	这些是进化中帮助婴儿生存的技能
But it's not just sounds that fetuses are learning about in utero.	婴儿在子宫里学习不仅是声音
Now it turns out that fetuses are learning even bigger lessons.	不过胎儿学习的东西还有更多的
But before I get to that, I want to address something that you may be wondering about.	首先我想解释下你可能疑惑的地方
Will it be born into a world of abundance or scarcity?	他出生的世界会资源充足还是贫乏？
But others wouldn't be discovered for many years.	但还有一些影响很多年后才显现出来
But that may not be all that's going on.	但是这还不能说明全部状况
They're preparing themselves for the kind of world they will encounter on the other side of the womb.	他们准备好自身来面对母体外的世界
It's a demonstration of augmented reality.	这将是现实被增强的一个示范
They are live and reacting to me in real time.	这是现场表演跟我之间是即时互动
I like to think of it as a kind of technological magic.	我喜欢把它看成一种科技魔术
Magic is deception, but it is a deception we enjoy.	魔术是一种骗术但却令人享受
Without it, a script is just words.	没有这种信念脚本就只是一堆字词
He said something that I've posted on the wall of my studio.	他的话就刻在我工作室的墙上
The tricks of magic follow the archetypes of narrative fiction.	魔法的招数遵循叙事小说的原型
Because the best stories always have a happy ending.	因为最好的故事总以快乐结尾
The tricks of magic have one special element.	魔术的诀窍在于一种特殊的元素
Jokes lead us down a path to an expected destination.	笑话带人们上路指向一个预期的终点
We feel compelled to tell them.	我们总是迫不及待地想要讲述
We turn facts into similes and metaphors, and even fantasies.	我们赋予事实明喻或暗喻甚至幻想
And if the story is a good one, it might even make us smile.	如果故事不赖就能让人开怀而笑
So there seems to be a complete disconnect here.	这里就出现了一个完全的脱节
It may still be, for all I know.	据我所知，很有可能现在仍是
You have a series of buttons. You actually choose your lift music.	它们是供你选择电梯的音乐风格
The last thing in the world you ever want to see is your balance."	而最不愿意看到的就是自己的结余。
Why would you willingly expose yourself to bad news?	谁愿意让自己得知坏消息呢？
But it's very, very uncomfortable for us to actually acknowledge that we're living in such a world.	但要我们承认这一点是十分困难的
Moving over, we come, of course, to consultancy.	接下来我们就来说一下咨询方面
But there's a fourth thing.	但最后这一类事情，即第四类
His music never ceases to sound fresh and surprising to me.	他的音乐始终让我感到新鲜和惊奇
I want to create endless possibilities with this cello.	我和我的大提琴创造出无限的可能
The stories we tell about each other matter very much.	我们互相讲述的故事非常重要
And then he said, "What you do for the least of these, you do for me."	他还说，你为他们做的就是为我做的
And also, it was kind of interesting that God needed help.	此外，有意思的是上帝也需要帮助
I heard about things that were going wrong in the lives of the poor.	我听到穷人生活的不尽如人意
And I stopped expecting things to really change.	我不再期望事情能真正有所改变
I mean who can argue with that?	我的意思是谁能说那是错的呢？
It was an amazing sort of insight for me.	这对我来说是一个令人惊叹的见解
That was another thing that really touched me.	这是另一个令我触动的事情
Anyway, another interesting thing happened while I was there.	此外，还有一件事情很有意思
In fact, no one wanted me to feel bad for them at all.	事实上，没有人想让我怜悯他们
The money came in basically overnight.	这些钱当天晚上就发过来了
Let's start for real." That was our official launch.	我们开始正式运营这个网站
The second year, it was a total of 15 million.	第二年，总额变成了1500万美元
Maybe they're smiling, and they want to talk to you about what they've done.	他们微笑着谈论他们的成就
In short, it's deciding that tomorrow can better than today and going after that.	即，明天会更好并持续这种信念
That's around 130 billion dollars a year -- it's a lot.	每年大概有1300亿美元很多啊
And to close, I just want to say, look these are tools.	更进一步，我就想说，看看这些工具
And I think I can remind us that we do care.	我想提醒大家我们真的很在乎
And I'm grateful that I've gotten to do that here at TED.	在此，我很感谢TED让我站在这里
There is nothing bigger or older than the universe.	没什么比宇宙更广大更久远的了。
But was there anything before the Big Bang?	然而大爆炸前可有什么吗?
If not, what created the universe?	若是没有,又是什么创造宇宙呢?
Why did the universe emerge from the Big Bang the way it did?	宇宙缘何要从大霹雳中冒出呢?
The universe can spontaneously create itself out of nothing.	宇宙可以由无变有自我创生!
But we don't know how life first appeared.	但我们仍未搅通生命是如何生成:
This is my multitasking activity result.	这是我多任务处理活动下的结果。
This thing — whoops, can we go back?	这件事-哦，能倒回去吗？
Now, Frank didn't hear anything.	但是，弗兰克并没有听到什么
This is the Allen Telescope Array electronics today.	这是如今的艾伦望远镜系列电子设备
Well, a million star systems, is that interesting?	一百万个星系，听起来很有趣吧？
Neptune's probably not very big in your life.	你可能甚至没有听说过海王星
I mean, who knows, but suppose it happens.	谁知道呢？但请假设它会发生
What is the effect? What's the consequence?	这会带来什么影响？会有什么后果？
You can be sure of that. No secrecy.	相信我，这已经不是一个秘密了
But what about you? What's it going to do to you?	但是你呢？在你身上会发生什么？
And the answer is that we don't know the answer.	答案就是我们也不知道会发生什么
You're not going to hear from alien Neanderthals.	你不会收到外星人的祖先的来信
That's interesting to cosmologists.	这对于宇宙学家来说非常有意思
They're the ones you find on the kitchen countertop.	你会在厨房的台面上发现它们
Well, here's one example, in fact.	这儿就有一个例子，事实上
It's mostly about things that have big teeth.	而节目中更多的是有巨大牙齿的动物
And not just us. It's also kids.	而且不仅仅是我们，小孩也是一样
They get interested in something.	他们会开始对某些事情感兴趣
I had been brought in to talk to these kids for an hour.	我准备对他们做一小时的演讲
All they wanted to do was ask questions.	因为他们真正想做的是提问
Previous generations couldn't do this experiment at all.	以前的人们根本不能做这种实验
I talked there, what, two weeks ago, something like that.	大概两周之前我在那里演讲
And a lot of what goes on inside ...	再来看看这里发生了些什么——
there's a fish with glowing eyes, pulsating eyes.	这条鱼有着会发光，闪烁的眼睛。
Just absolutely amazing, every single dive.	每一次潜水都充满着惊喜。
In the next bit, we're going to see a couple squid.	接下来，再来一起看一对鱿鱼。
And there he is, his droopy little eyes up here.	看它，看它那双无精打采的眼睛。
But they can do pretty amazing things, too.	不过它们能做很神奇的事。
Positively amazing. Here's two males fighting.	多神奇！这又是两只雄性在搏斗。
That big brown makes his eyespot very big.	那片棕色让它的眼睛看起来十分大。
I was the first person to actually drive a car to the spot.	我算是开车到这个地方的第一个人。
And you find nothing for years and years.	然后你年复一年，什么也找不到。
You spend more time with your parents.	你跟父母在一起的时间更长。
It supports your tongue from behind.	它从后部支撑着你的舌头。
It determines the type of voice you produce.	它决定了你发出的声音类型。
What does that tell us?"	它到底对我们意味着什么？"
Still, in my opinion, we have two choices.	然而，我认为，我们有两种选择。
It's a place of myth and legend.	这是一个充满神秘与传奇之地。
So, in fact, it's not permanently in the high seas.	实际上，它并非永久处于公海上，
So what I'd really like to suggest is that we need to scale-up.	因此，我确实要建议我们需要拓展。
So stay tuned for further information.	故要继续等待进一步信息。
We've been revealing this information through technical workshops.	我们通过技术工作室发布这种信息。
We can also tag and track fishing vessels.	我们也能标记和追踪渔船。
Our species are ocean-basin-wide.	各物种都是海底全流域活动的
I wasn't good enough; I wasn't smart enough.	怀疑自己不够优秀，不用聪明。
Because that's the way people really get rich."	"因为这就是人们致富的方式。"
And I give lots of evidence.	而且我可以举出很多证据。
Now we're already starting to see some experiments here.	现在，我们已经开始着手一些实验。
The symptoms are this horrible swelling up of fluids under the skin.	这种症状是皮肤下面有可怕水肿。
And he's operating in a hostile environment.	他是在一个充满敌意的环境里工作。
The German camp guards, they've got bored.	德国集中营的守卫无聊的时候。
He said he heard suspicious laughter.	他说他听到了可疑的笑声。
Marmite is a breakfast spread beloved of the British.	马麦英国人热爱的早餐面包酱，
Now Archie was a doctor, so he hung around with doctors a lot.	阿奇是个医生他一直和医生们在一起
I see it in our business leaders.	我看见它存在于我们的商业领袖身上
And they are brilliant; it's wonderful work.	它们很出色，很棒的研究结果
So three pieces of data for each country -- three pieces of data.	每个国家三个数据三个数据
You show all these interconnections, all these interrelations.	展示了所有这些互相的关系和链接
And I'm just counting toasters here.	而我这只是在这里数烤面包机而已
So this is the complexity of the world that surrounds us.	所以这就是我们所处的环境的复杂性
I realize that's an ambiguous statement.	我知道这是一个模糊的说法
You could use it in an industrial context.	你可以把它用于产业环境中
Well you have this great big tank full of liquid detergent.	你有这么一大池子的液体清洁剂
You pump it at a high pressure through a nozzle.	你用高压将它压过一个喷嘴
You scoop it up. You put it in cardboard boxes.	你将它铲起，放入一个纸板盒子里。
And he will, or she will, calculate the optimal design of the nozzle.	他或者她会计算管口的最佳设计方案
You see how this works, right?	你知道这是怎么做出来的了吧？
And we've heard a lot about how economies function.	我们听过很多经济是如何运作的言论
It's far higher than the failure rate of, say, Americans.	这个失败率比美国人的失败率要高
It's come through trial and error.	它是从试试验和排除错误中得来的
Obviously trial and error is very important.	很显然试验和排除错误很重要
We're going to test them out. They'll probably all fail.	我们会测试这些想法，我们可能失败
Then we'll test some other ideas out.	然后我们会再测试其他想法
All the cardiac doctors tried to shut him down.	所有心脏科医生都想要把他挡在门外
They had the God complex in spades.	他们完全摆出拥有万能的神力的样子
Nevertheless, Archie managed to get permission to do this.	无论如何，阿奇得到了试验的许可
They're not statistically significant.	这些数据在统计学上并不可观
It is dangerous for patients to recover from heart attacks at home.	让心脏病人在家康复是危险的
Tumbleweed rolls through the meeting room.	会议室如风滚草卷过一般安静下来
I do not want to have my conclusions tested."	我不需要有人来测试我的结论。"
It feels so much more comfortable simply to lay down the law.	简单地定下法则然人感到很自在。
Now I'm not going to pretend that this is easy.	我不想假装这是件容易的事情
In fact, it turns out it's equivalent to proving Fermat's Last Theorem.	事实，它和费马最后定理是同等的
You prove one, you prove the other.	你证明了一个，就证明了另一个
We can't stop economic growth.	我们不能让经济增长停下来。
Technology is amazing. People are innovative.	科技是如此神奇。人们善于创新。
There are so many ways we can improve the way we do things.	我们有很多办法来改进做事的方式。
We can surely sort this out.	我们一定可以解决这个问题。
Well, it's mostly true.	应该说，多数情况下是对的。
It's like the Earth doesn't care what we need.	这就好比地球并不在乎我们的需要。
We've had science proving the urgency of change.	科学已证实了做出改变的急迫性。
I've done my grieving about the loss.	我对于那些损失表示惋惜。
It is sad, but it is what it is.	现状是悲哀的，但事已至此。
In my view, it is well underway.	在我看来，它早就开始了。
I know most people don't see it that way.	我知道大多数人不这么认为。
Of course, we can't know what will happen.	当然，我们无法预测将来。
But this time it's not a tiger at the cave mouth.	但这次的危险并不是破篮猛虎，
You can't see the danger at your door.	危险的枪口对准的不是你的家门。
There's certainly no technical or economic barrier in the way.	技术和经济方面的阻碍根本不存在。
We can do it with proven technology.	我们通过可靠的技术就能做到。
We can do it at an affordable cost.	我们不需花太高代的价就能做到。
We can do it with existing political structures.	我们通过现有的政治体制就能做到。
We need to accept the fear and then we need to act.	我们必须面对恐惧，然后采取行动。
The Earth can support that if we choose the right path.	地球负担得起，只要我们选对道路。
We can choose life over fear.	我们能够战胜恐惧，找到生机。
I wanted to give you a current picture of the economy.	我想给你们看看目前的经济状况。
But anyway, let's start with the economy.	不过，我们还是从经济讲起吧
There's a couple of really big problems that are still sitting there.	有一些非常大的问题仍然存在
That means every bad loan goes bad 47 times over.	这就是说每笔坏帐会坏上47倍。
We all love Santa Claus, right?	我们都爱圣诞老人不是吗？
And we weren't supposed to run into 100 percent until about 2030.	到2030年左右，会达到100％
He is the main buyer of U.S. Treasury bonds.	他是美国国库券的主要购买者。
Let me show you what it looks like.	让我给你们看看情况会是怎样的。
The only problem with this bill is it's not really worth very much.	问题只是它其实并不值这么多。
We've got to start thinking about asking people to retire a little bit later.	我们开始想要求人们晚一点退休。
Your 401 just got nailed.	你的退休金刚刚只受到一些影响。
And we've got to end up with a smaller government.	最后就剩下一个更小的政府。
Because that's the consequence of not dealing with this stuff.	因为这就是不处理这些事情的后果。
And that's what we've got to keep growing.	这是我们需要保持增长的部分。
We don't have to keep growing these bridges to nowhere.	我们不必毫无方向地发展。
And let me recap some of the stuff you've seen.	让我重述一些你们所见过的东西。
Here was one of the first things they built.	这是它们制造的第一个东西
And when they stopped growing they would smell like bananas.	当它们停止生长就会闻起来像香蕉
Twenty-one countries came together. Dozens of teams.	21个国家参与了进来，几十个团队
So you take resveratrol and you put it into beer.	你可以提炼出白藜芦醇放进啤酒
And that was very cool stuff back then.	那时候这真是非常酷的东西
You can freeze half the brain. It regrows.	冷藏它的一半大脑，它会再长出来
This should not surprise you, right?	这些不会让你感到惊奇吧？
I mean, you're born with no teeth.	你们出生的时候是没有牙齿的
You give away all your teeth to the tooth fairy.	你把自己的牙齿全都给了牙仙
And we can do it with other things.	我们也能用其他东西来做到这点
She's now running around with her kids.	现在她正和她的孩子一起嬉闹奔跑。
This may be one of the ultimate papers.	这或许是最终极的论文之一。
This is Boston Dynamics' "BigDog."	这是波士顿动力的"大狗"。
These are not the only interesting robots.	这些不仅仅是有趣的机器人。
Now, they can't hear as well as you and I can.	现在，他们不仅能像你我一样聆听。
And the same thing is happening in eyes.	同样的事也会发生在视力上。
And then they'll be able to see shape.	然后他们会开始看见形状。
They'll do stuff you and I can't do.	他们将做你我不能做的事情。
And it's the 150th anniversary of the publication of "The Origin of Species."	也是"物种起源"出版150周年。
That would be a mildly arrogant viewpoint.	这个观点或许略微有些自大。
I think we're going to move from a Homo sapiens into a Homo evolutis.	我们会从智人变成演化人。
And that, of course, would be the ultimate reboot.	当然，那将会是终极的复苏。
But he knew about the cheap and simple one.	他也知道那个又便宜又简单的方法。
So, this is the data I just showed, OK?	所以这就是我刚才给你们看的数据。
And the standard error bands are relatively small around these estimates as well.	同时死亡率的分散程度都很小。
So we actually tried to commission some crash tests.	所以我们试着委托人做些碰撞测试。
And I think the answer, perhaps, lies in a story.	我想，答案尽在下面这个故事里。
It's really amazing that all this stuff is here.	真地很神奇，所有东西都在这儿。
And yet it's here.	然而，它已出现在我们面前。
And it turns out that that's not what it was.	结果，却不是大家所想象的那样。
It's impossible in theory, but possible in practice.	理论上不可行，但实际上却可行。
It has not crashed; it's running uninterrupted.	它从不宕机，它永不停止运算，
And there's 55 trillion links between all the Web pages of the world.	全世界网页之间有55万亿个连接。
Of course, the memory is really huge.	想当然的，记忆空间相当庞大。
However, your brain isn't doubling every two years.	只不过，人脑不会每2年成倍增长。
First, that basically what this machine is doing is embodying.	第一，这部机器正在实体化
And thirdly, we're going to become completely codependent upon it.	第三，我们将要完全地与之共存。
First of all, we have all these things in our hands.	第一，我们手上握着不少东西，
These are all basically portals into that one machine.	基本上，这些屏幕是入口。
And I am suggesting that every bit will be owned by the Web.	我想每一个位元都将属于网络。
The Web, in some sense, is kind of like a black hole that's sucking up everything into it.	网络就像黑洞，把一切都吸进去。
And so every thing will be part of the Web.	每一件东西都成为网络的一部分。
Those are the effects that we're going to see.	这些就是我们将要看到的影响力。
So those laws are going to kind of spread throughout all media.	这些定律将会遍布所有媒体。
McLuhan was saying, "Machines are the extensions of the human senses."	他说，机器是人类感官的延伸。
So, I don't know what the name of this thing is.	我不知道这个东西的名字，
And all these things that are going to be on this are not just pages, they are things.	上面的东西，不只是网页而是物件。
So we have this database of things.	我们会有一个"物品资料库"。
So, the last thing I want to talk about is this idea that we're going to be codependent.	最后一个概念是，相互依存。
So I am open, and being transparent to that.	原来我是开放的，我是透明的。
Just like it wasn't TV and only better.	就像不是电视是比电视更好的东西。
It'll have an intelligence in there, that's not, again, conscious.	不是拥有个人意识的人工智慧，
It will know us, and that's good.	它会了解我们，这是好事。
And all these devices will be portals into that.	我们手上的装置会是进入它的入口。
But we can also think about it as kind of a large organism.	可以把它想做是一个巨大的有机体。
We'll have a better word for it.	我们终会给它一个更好的名字。
But there's a unity of some sort that's starting to emerge.	重点是，它渐渐形成一种单一性。
That's me with the funny gloves.	那个戴着奇怪手套的人就是我
And they tried everything they could to get me out of there.	他们想尽办法地使我脱离那个教派
They were called deprogrammers.	那个组织里的人被称为"反洗脑者"
And I then became a deprogrammer.	而我自己也成为"反洗脑者"
I started going out on cases.	我开始帮助被洗脑的当事人
There was a burning question though that would not leave me.	我脑中有个问题始终挥之不去
These are the dead in Jonestown.	这些就是死于那次事件的人
This is the leg of a suicide bomber.	这是一个人肉炸弹客的断腿
I was really idealistic.	且抱着过于理想主义的态度
"Moon is one with God.	我才会相信"文鲜明是上帝的化身"
God is going to fix all the problems in the world.	"上帝会解决世间所有问题"
All I have to do is humbly follow.	而我只要心悦诚服地追随他就好
We're beginning to look inside the brain.	现在我们开始窥探人脑是如何运作的
I kind of erased everything in my brain to follow that.	我差不多把脑袋清空了才演成那样。
And it's not any single system that makes the work.	各种系统不可能独立行事，
And that led us directly to the Olympic Village.	奥林匹克村就是这么个例子
And then, also, was working with broad strategies.	同时，也要广泛采取各种策略
This is the Caltrans building in Los Angeles.	这是洛杉矶的加州交通局总部大楼
And then the skin starts transforming into other materials.	然后，建筑外皮可以变成其他材料
This is a building in San Francisco which is under construction.	这座建筑在旧金山，还在建
Well, I could also start here.	我们还可以再看看另一个项目。
There it is modeled as it was developing into a piece of work.	这个模型已经有点作品的样子了
It's an idea that started from my first discussion.	它和我演讲最初的讨论有关
Well, then we get to this image.	然后我们一起看了这幅照片
And really what we're talking about is constructing reality.	我们现在就在讨论构建现实
We construct it and we construct those ideas.	我们构建现实，构建各种理念
And then of course, this one, our governor at the moment.	然后，毋庸置疑的，我们现在的州长
This technology made a very important impact on us.	有一项技术给我们带来了重大冲击。
It changed the way our history developed.	它改变了我们历史发展的道路。
We are the animals who eat cooked food.	我们这种动物要吃烹饪的食物。
And you need some design to be successful.	而且你需要一些构思才能成功。
Those have to pay tuition fees know.	所以我们现在必须要为此付费。
We populated all the ecologies.	我们在各种生态环境中繁衍。
It keeps also your brain working.	它也让你开动脑筋想方设法。
The brain could grow, but the gut actually shrunk.	脑子变大了，但是肠胃却缩小了。
So because of having cooked food, it's easier to digest.	因为有了熟食，就更容易消化。
You can influence your own technologies you have invented.	你可以影响你自己已经发明的厨艺。
And this is actually taste reward and energy.	而且确实会带来更好的味道和能量。
So satisfaction was a very important part.	所以满足感是一个非常重要的部分。
And as I say, energy was necessary.	而且正如我说的，能量也是必须的。
This is what we are using."	我们一直都是这么用的。"
It senses the food; it knows exactly what to do.	它感受到食物，知道应该干什么。
It can replace, or it can inhibit actually, signals.	它可以替换，或甚至阻止那些信号。
At least in my case, they are not listened to.	至少在我这里，这些信号都不管用。
The more usual case is overeating.	更常见的情况是过度进食。
This is an in vitro experiment.	这是在试管中进行的实验。
It's very difficult to work in the intestine.	因为很难在肠道里做实验。
And these are the slivers of insight upon which cultures have been forged.	这两个词汇锻造着人类的文化。
Why did we use that word, science?	为什么我们采用"科学"一词？
It means things happen.	它的意思是事事皆可能发生。
The third noble truth said that ignorance can be overcome.	第三个真理是无知是能够被克服的。
And, of course, the human population has its own reciprocal obligations.	当然，人类有着繁衍后代的责任。
Their central metaphor is a loom.	他们核心的隐喻是织布机。
And this is one of those initiates.	这就是早期的加入者之一。
And it was extraordinary to be taken by a priest.	被神父带领是个很神奇的经历——
These are not dying peoples.	他们并不是垂死挣扎的人们。
It remains a rich topography of the spirit.	它仍然像精神领域高低不平的地质。
They're unique facets of the human imagination.	他们是人类想象的不同方面。
Our industrial society is scarcely 300 years old.	我们的工业社会不过3百年历史。
And this isn't just found in packaging.	它们不仅仅被用作包装材料。
And that's not the only place it's found.	它们也不仅仅只出现在这些产品中。
You'll find it inside of you.	你会在你自己的身体里发现它。
Because in nature, mushrooms are the recycling system.	因为在大自然中，蘑菇是循环系统。
So what you're seeing here is actually cotton hulls from Texas, in this case.	你所看见的实际上是德州的棉籽壳。
Because the manufacturing process is our organism.	因为这个加工过程是这些生物。
So I've said a number of times that we grow materials.	我几次提到我们是生长材料。
The last step, of course, is application.	最后一步，当然就是应用了。
As you're all aware, we face difficult economic times.	众所周知，我们正处经济困难时期。
In fact, the ideal may be to use no words at all.	事实上，理想状态是根本不用语言。
Now surprisingly, it seems to work.	令人惊奇地是，这似乎很有用。
But don't take my word for it.	但是不要相信我的一面之词。
There are hundreds of dancing scientists waiting for you.	成百上千的跳舞的科学家在等着你。
They do it by changing their shape.	他们通过改变细胞的形状进行研究。
And this brings me to my modest proposal.	下面我就谈谈我的小小建议。
So now my country is 15 trillion dollars in debt.	现在美国欠有十五万亿债务。
One certainly can't argue with those numbers.	我们当然不能和这些数字争论。
And then one of two things will happen.	一般出现的情形都不过以下两种
Here's one -- a head, followed by a tail, followed by a tail.	比如这个--正面、反面、正面
Then the pattern, head-tail-tail, that we've suddenly become fixated with happens here.	然后我们设定这样一个情形正反反
The second time, maybe it's after the fourth toss.	第二回也许第四次就能看到
That's what I want this side to think about.	这就是我想让这半边思考的情况
So, on this side, you get out your coins, and you toss and toss and toss.	所以这半边的观众拿出硬币反复投掷
There is. Head-tail-head overlaps itself.	二者的确不同正反正情形会自我重叠
You can't do that with head-tail-tail.	而这在正反反的情形下无法实现
There are two ways of thinking about this.	有两种方法可以来想这个问题
So imagine -- let's suppose we're doing it.	假设我们正在进行这个实验
The next toss is a tail -- you get really excited.	第二次是反--大家都很激动
You're waiting with bated breath for the final toss.	大家都屏气凝神观望最后一掷
It's the same for the first two parts of the sequence.	这个序列中前两步都是相同的
If it's a tail, you crack open the champagne.	如果是反你们就可以打开香槟了
You know about the Human Genome Project.	大家都了解人类基因组计划
Why do we care about that?	为什么要这么关注这些呢？
Come on -- everyone's got to get involved.	别这样--每个人都参与进来
So now suppose we test them all.	现在假设我们给所有人做了测试
Each of those explanations has a likely bit and an unlikely bit.	每种解释都有一定的可能性
Each of them taken together is unlikely.	每个解释合起来都不大可能
So that's what statisticians would call an assumption of independence.	这被统计学家们称为独立事件
There are lots and lots of things that we don't know about sudden infant deaths.	我们对婴儿猝死综合症有太多不了解
It's worse than silly -- it's really bad science.	这比愚蠢还糟--这是坏科学
And the other one was the chance, a priori, that the person had the disease or not.	另一个就是这个人本身是否患病
We don't know what it is.	我们不知道这个个机率是多少
What matters is how likely or unlikely, relative to each other, the two explanations are.	重要的是这两种解释相对发生的机率
So just to conclude -- what are the take-home messages from this?	总结一下我们应该得到什么警示呢
It's very well documented that people get things wrong.	有很多人们理解错误的记录
They make errors of logic in reasoning with uncertainty.	他们在不确定性方面犯逻辑错误
This is a world-changing invention.	这是一项改变世界的发明。
But smoke alarms don't prevent fires.	但是，烟雾警报器不防止火灾。
So how does electricity ignite residential fires?	那么电是怎样引起住宅火灾的呢？
Our invention had to address all of these issues.	我们的发明必须解决所有这些问题。
The potential energy savings is very, very significant.	潜在的能源消耗是非常非常可观的。
Something is very challenging to me.	我遇到了一些很具有挑战性的问题
I want to make my friends understand: China is complicated.	我想让我的朋友理解中国很复杂
I'll give an example. China is a BRIC country.	举个例子来说，中国是一个金砖国家
It prevents weird things from the north.	它会把所有奇怪的东西统统拦在北方
But China also has a great firewall.	但是中国同样也有一个火墙
That's the biggest digital boundary in the whole world.	它是当今世界上最大的数字屏障
So, basically the "Internet" has two Internets.	所以，其实现在有两个互联网
How to make it? It's simple.	怎么做到的这一点呢？其实很简单
We all know Mubarak is technically dead.	我们都知道穆巴拉克因此而丧了命
That means keep the server in your hands.	即把服务器掌握在自己的手中
It's the entire population of the United States.	相当于美国的整个美国的人口
Chinese is always cheating, right?	中国人永远在造假，是吧？
It even has its own name, with Weibo.	它甚至有自己的名字——微博
So they send them back in recent years.	所以这几年他们往往是被遣送回老家
It's like a big TED, right?	它就像一个大的TED大会，对吧？
Why? Because they have the data.	为什么？因为他们掌握着数据
So the crackdown is very serious.	而对他们的打压是非常严重的
Something will happen behind it.	因为往往一些事情会发生在它的后面
But this technology is very new, but technically is very old.	这种技术很新颖但是手段上却很陈旧
They just give them a target window to not censor people.	它只需要给大众一个无需审查的窗口
Social media changed Chinese mindset.	社交媒体改变了中国人的心态
We want beauty; we don't just want function.	我们追求美；我们不只是追求实用。
And that's what I'd like to talk to you a little bit about today.	这就是我今天想要和大家讲的。
She's in a very supportive environment.	她周围的环境给予了她很大的支持。
Back then you couldn't even look at the eardrum.	那时我们甚至不会看耳鼓。
It's surgically placed inside the inner ear.	人工耳蜗通过手术，被放置入内耳。
It is. It's a huge success story in modern medicine.	它是的。它是现代医学的巨大成功。
Language is very different. Language is very precise.	语言就不同了。语言非常的具体。
The acoustics of music are much harder than those of language.	音乐的音质比语言的音质要高多了。
Because I always view music as the pinnacle of hearing.	我一直把音乐视为听力的巅峰。
If we could play these two sound clips in succession.	我们来连续播放一下这两段音频。
They cannot differentiate sound quality differences between those two clips.	他们不能区分这两段音频的音质。
Now I don't know if anybody knows who this is.	我不知道有没有人知道这是谁。
But she jumps to action when called to duty!	但是一听到喇叭，她就跳了起来！
Now I want to show you one last video.	现在我想给大家播放最后一段录像。
Not long after, I was fitted with hearing aids.	之后没过多久，我开始使用助听器。
And not long after I got my cochlear implant, I started learning how to play piano.	之后不久，我开始学习演奏钢琴。
There are almost no deaf surgeons anywhere.	失聪的外科医生几乎哪儿也没有。
So I just want to conclude with the following words.	我想用以下的话来结束我的演讲。
Restoration of basic sensory function is critical.	恢复基本的感官功能是极其重要的。
Ladies and gentlemen, I made a different choice.	女士们先生们我的选择有些不同
A real gun at a few feet's distance.	一把真枪就在据你几英尺的地方
It means The Netherlands is a peaceful country.	这意味着荷兰是一个和平的国家
It means soldiers are not needed to patrol our streets.	这意味着士兵们不必去巡视街道
Guns are not a part of our lives.	枪支也不是我们生活的一部分
In many countries it is a different story.	但在很多国家情况却完全不同
In many countries people are confronted with guns.	在许多国家里人们必须和枪支打交道
Their grim plans were evident.	他们侵略野心已经凸显无疑
Diplomacy had failed to stop the Germans.	外交途径已经无法阻止德国人
My father was there to provide it.	我父亲当时就在那时刻为战争准备着
When he aimed, he never missed.	他只要瞄准就不可能射不中
He fired. Nothing happened.	他开了枪，但什么也没发生
Now this may sound contradictory to you.	你们可能觉得这听起来有点矛盾
Well we were talking on the human mind this morning.	我们今天早晨讨论的就是人性的问题
Abstaining from violence becomes more profitable than starting a war.	放弃暴力比发起一场战争更加有益
Where there is no conflict, trade flourishes.	没有冲突的地方贸易才能繁荣
And trade is another important incentive against violence.	同样，贸易是另一个抑制暴力的因素
The armed forces implement the state monopoly on violence.	军队保证着国家对于暴力的垄断
My soldiers use the gun as an instrument of peace.	我的战士们用枪作为维护和平的工具
Because she wants a better world.	因为她憧憬一个更美好的世界
The important thing is we can write it in a high-level language.	关键是我们可以以高阶语言去写它。
A computer magician can write this thing.	一个电脑魔术师可以写出这种东西。
Most of them are pretty basic.	他们的大多数都十分基础。
Friction climbing doesn't have any sort of hard positive edges.	摩擦攀岩没有任何好爬的地方。
You're climbing on little dimples and nubbins in the rock.	你就是在岩石的小坑小点上攀岩。
So momentum is good. Don't stop.	所以冲劲是好的。别停下。
This climber is on the last pitch of it.	这位攀岩者只剩最后一步了。
There is about 1,000 feet of air below him.	他下面大概有1000英尺的空气。
And then what happens?	但是通过了后又怎么样呢？
You get to the last pitch. It's easy.	你通过了最后一步，这不难。
And you're completely flamed out. Don't do it.	然后你完全就松懈了，不要这样做。
The interesting thing about this climb is it's not that hard.	关于这次攀爬，有趣的是它不难。
So you've got to focus.	所以，你必须集中注意力。
This is a climb in the Needles, again in California.	这是尼德尔斯，又在加利福尼亚。
It's an inherent nature of an evolutionary process.	这是一个进化过程固有的性质。
And we've had a continual acceleration of this process.	我们在这个过程是不断加速的。
But you see a very clear trend.	但是有一个非常明显的趋势。
And that's exponential growth through five different paradigms.	这是通过5种不同模式的成倍增。
And economists have actually started worrying about that.	而经济学家已经开始担心这些。
And this is a very widespread phenomena.	这是一个非常广泛的现象。
This is based on the number of hosts.	这长图是基于主机的数量。
Where will we get the software?	我们从哪里得到我们的软件呢？
That was strictly a capital-markets phenomena.	这是一个严格的资本市场的现象。
So let me just end with a couple of scenarios.	那么，让我来以两个情景来结束。
It'll be millions of times more powerful than it is today.	它将会比现在的科技强大数百万倍。
But it's not just an alien invasion of intelligent machines.	但是这不只是智能机器的入侵。
We've demonstrated the key principles of being able to do this.	我们将会展示这些成功的原理。
You can plug in and experience what it's like to be someone else.	你可以进入然后体验别人的感觉。
They both empower our promise and our peril.	它们将会成就我们的前景和隐患。
So what I want to talk about today is belief.	所以我今天要谈的是相信。
It is the default option. We just believe.	是本能的一部分,我们就爱信
Essentially, we are pattern-seeking primates.	事实上，我们是找寻模式的灵长类
Is it a dangerous predator, or is it just the wind?	是危险的捕食者还是风声？
This is the only equation in the talk by the way.	这是整篇演讲里唯一的方程式。
So for example, what do you see here?	举例来说，你觉得这是什么？
It looks like a horse. It must be a horse.	它看上去像是匹马，这一定是匹马。
Yes, there it is. And there's the prime.	在这里，于是我们启动了脑
Because there's nothing in this. Well, allegedly there's nothing.	因为图片裡什么也没有，据说没有
That is, almost everybody sees the planet Saturn.	就是说，虽然每个人都看得到土星
Here is what you show subjects.	这是他们给参与者看的图像
Our right hemisphere appears to be where a lot of this patternicity occurs.	我们的右脑似乎更容易识别出模式
That is, how accurate we are in finding patterns.	决定我们辨识出的模式是对或错
You miss the real patterns. You don't want to be too skeptical.	忽略太多模式。你不想太多疑
Too high and maybe you see patterns everywhere.	多巴胺太高，变得过分敏感
Every time somebody looks at you, you think people are staring at you.	每次有人看你，你就认为他们在瞪你
The other one also, but maybe too many patterns.	另外一个也是，只是有些太多了
Pretty sexy feet, I must say.	这脚真的很性感，我必须说
Maybe a little Photoshopped.	虽然可能修片修的有点太过了
That's a dolphin tail there, guys.	这里有个海豚尾巴，同志们
In fact, it's the exact same picture side by side.	事实上，这是两张完全一样的照片
So what you're doing is comparing that angle instead of with this one, but with that one.	因为你比较这个角度而不是那个角度
I'm actually not even sure if this is -- this might be Photoshopped.	事实上我认为－这有可能是电脑做的
Now which one of these looks odd to you?	这两张照片哪张比较奇怪？
In a quick reaction, which one looks odd?	立即反应下，哪张比较奇怪？
Now, they trade up the politicians every time.	现在他们会定期更换政治人物
So you recognize Obama immediately.	所以你马上可以认出这是欧巴马
Some patterns are real and some are not.	某些模式是真的，某些不是
My favorite one was he was in the manhole.	我最喜欢的说法是躲下水道里
But of course, Lincoln was assassinated by a conspiracy.	但当然，林肯便是被阴谋暗杀的
So we can't just uniformly dismiss all patterns like that.	所以我们也不能完全忽略所有的模式
Because, let's face it, some patterns are real.	因为，事实上，某些模式是真的
They think it was an inside job by the Bush administration.	他们认为是小布希政府做的
Well, that's a whole other lecture.	我可以用一整个演讲来讲这个话题
Because we can imagine, in essence, continuing on.	说到底，都是因为我们的想象力再来
And the brain then senses that there's an out-of-body experience.	大脑便会产生一种灵魂出窍的体验
So I'm going to end here with a short video clip that sort of brings all this together.	我现在要用一个短片作为总结
We're hoping we can use part of this in a national commercial, right?	我们希望可以选一些段落在全国播出
And these are our models who are going to help us, Roger and Matt.	这两位模特儿罗杰和迈特会帮助我们
Would you have any problem kissing our models to test it?	你需要和这两位接吻会有困难吗？
It's completely blind now, right?	现在什么也看不到了对吗？
Okay, now I'm going to ask you to pucker up.	好的，现在我要你把嘴嘟起来
Pucker up big and lean in just a little bit, okay?	嘟起来，然后靠近点，好的
But later the government soldiers began mistreating us a lot.	但是后来政府的士兵开始虐待我们。
At that moment, they fired and shot off my fingers.	那时，他们开枪射下了我的手指
Peter Gabriel: So torture is not something that always happens on other soil.	而酷刑折磨并不总发生在异国他乡。
Help WITNESS give cameras to the world.	帮助"目击者"给世界派发相机。
Its head is down. It's walking backwards.	它的头是朝下的，而且是倒着走。
And look at what the beetle does.	然后我们看这些蜣螂怎么办。
So how do we test that? Well, that's easy.	我们怎么证明这点？其实不难，
How are they doing it? Well, they're rolling them in a straight line.	怎么滚粪球？它们沿着直线滚。
That was what was of interest to us next.	这是我们就接下来要关心的。
So what we did was design a couple of arenas.	于是我们设计了两个实验场。
So the background here is around about 50 degrees centigrade.	地表的温度大概是50摄氏度左右，
It's about the same as yours and mine.	它的体温跟你我都差不多。
And look at its front legs. They're roaringly hot.	注意它的前腿，非常的热。
So we described these as cool boots.	我们叫这些小鞋子为"清凉靴"。
This is a dung beetle. Watch what he's doing.	看这只蜣螂，注意看它在干嘛。
So watch this individual here, and what he's trying to do is set up a nest.	注意看这只，它正打算做一个窝。
What we've got is a burrow. That's where the forage was.	这是一个巢穴，食物就放在里面。
The forage has been displaced to a new position.	食物被移动到了一个新的位置
We don't know yet what dung beetles use.	我们还不知道蜣郎是怎么做到的。
I also have with me a flame table.	我今天还带来了一个火焰桌
All right, from skate physics to theoretical physics.	好吧,从滑板物理到理论物理,
Jared Ficklin: Thank you.	JaredFicklin:谢谢
All right, so let's watch this clip again.	好吧,那么就让我们在看一次这个
Actually, it's all just an idea.	实际上,这只不过是个想法
As kind of like a backdrop to show how bad things are.	就好像让你看看现场有多糟糕一样。
And then put it back in your character.	然后再把这个动作放在你的角色上。
Actor: "You want to know something? Well, you want to know something?	"你想知道吗？你真的想知道吗？
Just laying there, eyes glazed over!"	他就躺在那里，目光呆滞！"
Everybody did their own part.	每个人都做了自己的那部分，
But the real relevation was when I learned about method acting.	真正让我受到启示的是方法演技。
You can see when I psych it out, it gets fooled.	你可以看到我可以糊弄它。
Let's call it the calculated brain.	我们暂且称它为"会计算的大脑"。
Let's call it the adventurous brain.	我们暂且称它为"爱冒险的大脑"，
It sometimes makes mistakes and corrects them.	有的时候它会犯错然后去纠正。
And at some point can even be surprised by what the robot came up with.	有时甚至被机器人的表现惊讶。
And when it's ready to coordinate the final chord with me.	忙于准备跟我一起演奏最后的旋律。
And it's not just fun and games.	当然这一切不仅仅只是娱乐和游戏。
Somewhere in your future there's going to be a robot in your life.	你未来的某个阶段会有个机器人。
I'm usually introduced as a polar explorer.	人们通常介绍我是一名极地探险家。
Now I'm not actually sure that he did say that.	现在我并不确定他是否说过这句话
We don't live to eat and make money.	我们活着不是为了吃饭挣钱。
We eat and make money to be able to enjoy life.	我们吃饭挣钱是为了能够享受生活。
No one had ever done this. I was 26 at the time.	此举前所未有而当时我仅26岁。
There was a bit of fun, a bit of joy.	有一点点有趣有一点点快乐。
Beyond that, I didn't see anyone for 10 weeks.	除此之外整整10周我没看到任何人
And I would add a cautionary note here, however.	然而在这里我想提出一个警告
Many of you will know the story.	你们当中有很多人会知道这个故事
Is there a chance you'll see her there?"	你们有可能在那儿碰面么？"
But Scott's journey remains unfinished.	但是斯考特的旅程并未完成
So that's precisely what I'm setting out to do.	所以这正是我准备做的事情。
Good morning. My name is David Rose.	早上好。我叫DavidRose。
Let's see if you can get this one.	看看你们能不能回答这个。
But they want experience in creating an organization.	但是他们想看到一些组织经验。
I mean, I want you to have domain expertise.	我的意思是，你要有专业知识。
I don't know what the market is like."	我不了解市场是什么样的。
And then you have to have the skills that it takes to get a company going.	你要有所有运营一个公司的能力。
I want to know that you have commitment.	我要知道你能坚持你的承诺。
Because bad things happen.	因为没有什么事情会是一直顺利的。
I don't want another "me too" product.	我不想看到一个"我也是"的产品。
But on top of that, I also need realism.	当然，这要建立在现实的基础上。
So think about your pitch as a timeline.	要把你的演说当成一个时间轴。
It starts off, you walk in the door.	它从你进门的那一刻开始。
They know nothing at all, whatsoever, about you.	他们在这一刻之前对你一无所知。
And it goes from beginning to end.	这个过程会从开始持续到最后。
I have invested tens of millions of dollars."	我也投资过上千万的资金。"
That's it -- that should get you right there.	就象这样，让你有个成功的开始。
Start with telling them what the market is.	从告诉他们你的市场开始。
You've also got to let me know that there are touchstones.	你要让我知道这些是可信的。
You want to tie in to the rest of the world out there.	你要把你所要做的和外界联系起来。
Odds are I probably know somebody who has made a widget.	没准我就知道已经有人做过了。
But if you can do it, it works really, really well.	但是如果你做到了，就会很成功。
Here's Gates doing a thing for Windows.	他在为Windows做一个演讲。
No. Who do you think we should look at as our role model?	不。那么我们应该学谁呢？
You look at the image and you see that, and you drop the whole thing.	你看一眼图片，看完后，清理思绪，
And why this whole thing makes sense.	和为什么这个投资项目很合理。
Just give me your company logo.	我只需要你公司的标志就够了。
I look at the logo, and it sort of ties it to my brain.	我看一眼标志，把它记在脑子里。
And then you want to give me a quick business overview.	然后你就要简短地介绍公司概况。
That lets me know the context.	让我就知道你公司的背景。
And I want to know the market -- the size of the market.	然后我想了解市场，市场的大小。
Why is this market worth getting at over here?	为什么市场的长期前景值得投资。
I just want to know -- what the heck is it?	我只想知道--它到底是什么？
But then, everybody has competition.	同时，所有人都有竞争者。
There has never been a company that doesn't have competition.	从来没有任何公司没有竞争者。
Even if the competition is the old way of doing something.	竞争者甚至也包括旧的做事方法。
And then all this ties into the financial overview.	然后这一切都联系到财务纵览。
And I want to know three or four or five years forward.	我也想知道三到五年之后。
Five is a bit much. Probably four is rational.	五年可能太多，四年比较合理。
I want to know what the driver is.	我想知道盈利驱动力是什么。
And our revenues are going to go this, that and the other thing.	我们的收入会如何增长，等等。
But then comes the ask.	然后就到了开口要钱的时候了。
This is where you tell me how much you actually want to get.	就是你想从我这里融资多少。
If you can't invest in your own thing, why should I invest in it?	如果你自己都不投，我怎么会投？
What's the capital structure up until this point?	你目前的资产结构是什么样的？
And I'm thinking, "This is really, really great."	我想，"这太棒了，太棒了。"
You've noticed here that I'm not looking at the screen, right?	你注意到了我没有看屏幕，对吗？
The screen is, actually, in this room, is set up so it's in front of me.	这个屋子的屏幕实际上在我背后，
Number three: the handouts you give are not your presentation.	第三，讲义不是你的演讲。
Number three: don't read your speech.	第三，不要阅读你的演讲。
And the first rule of the game is pretty simple.	游戏的第一个规则很简单。
So the next rule of the game is also pretty simple.	而游戏的下一个规则同样简单。
They move; they go up, they go down.	它们会动；有时上，有时下。
And if it is you, you are astonishingly well adapted.	而如果这是你，你适应得非常好。
Fireflies are not flies, fireflies are beetles.	萤火虫不是像苍蝇，萤火虫是甲虫。
I do like sympathy. I do like magic.	我喜欢同情，我也喜欢魔术。
We've got tens-of-thousands-years-old artwork.	我们有万年之前的艺术品。
Germans occupied Russia.	当时德国人侵入了俄罗斯。
You just need to find one more fact that you didn't know.	你只需要在找一个你不知道事实。
This is the kind of fact I would have loved as a boy.	我小的时候非常喜欢这种事情。
It's got some math that I can do.	它有着一些我可以做的数学。
I'm pretty sure my dad doesn't know it.	我很确定我爸爸也不知道。
I'm here today to start a revolution.	我今天来这里的目的是开启一场革命
I'm sick and tired of us being last.	我已厌倦我们处于最后一名的窘境
The lowest percentage of entrepreneurs starting businesses.	我们的自主创业百分比垫底
So if our engine's broken, guess what?	如果引擎坏了，结果又会如何呢？
And these are facts, guys.	这些都是血淋淋的事实，朋友们
How did this happen?	这一切都是怎么发生的呢？
Babies play, kids play, adults play.	婴儿玩耍，孩童玩耍成年人也玩耍
It's a social gene running through us.	这是我们体内的一种社会基因
What are qualities of a Bulgarian work?	保加利亚人的工作有哪些品质？
Autocratic -- do what I say because I'm the chef.	独断专横--我是老大，我说的算
That's somehow unprofessional and bad.	这样太不专业，影响太坏了
We have the serious meme in us.	我们被严肃的文化基因毒害了
Throughout the animal kingdom, for example: ants. Ants play.	例如，在动物界中蚂蚁，善于玩耍
They can still hunt, but they can't be social.	它们仍旧能够捕猎，但却无法互动
It's not the bears that learn how to fish better.	活得更久的不是那些善于捕鱼的熊
Dolphins, pretty big brains, play a lot.	海豚拥有很大的脑子，善于玩耍
It's a universal thing -- we play.	这是我们的共同点--玩耍
We dance, we kiss, we sing, we just goof around.	我们跳舞，亲吻，歌唱我们追逐打闹
We're designed by nature to play from birth to old age.	我们天生就会玩耍从生到老
We're designed to do that continuously -- to play and play a lot and not stop playing.	我们天生就喜欢一直玩不停地玩
We develop better decision-making ability if we play more.	我们玩得越多我们的决策能力越强
He's going to think I'm not working hard."	他会认为我没有卖力工作。"
The opposite of play is depression. It's depression.	玩乐的反义词是压迫，压迫
In fact, play improves our work.	事实上玩耍能够改善我们的工作
He's having fun, he's in the groove, he's in the flow.	他感到愉快，他玩得酣畅淋漓
And what do great customers do, great-feeling customers?	而这些感觉良好的顾客会怎么做呢？
Why do I care if you get in at nine o'clock?	你是否九点钟来上班与我何干呢？
I don't care if it's mountain biking or reading a book or playing a game.	不管是骑山地自行车，阅读或玩游戏
Weird concept: I hired you; I should trust you.	多新鲜啊。我聘用你，我就该相信你
We're not always right as leaders.	作为领导人，我们不可能总是对的
And we're going to do things like eliminate restrictions.	我们要采取行动要消除严格限制
Seriously, we need to band together.	说真的，我们必须团结一致
But what you need to do is fan the flames of the revolution.	我们需要做的是煽起革命之火
And from those single points emanated stories.	而从广播中播放出来的故事，
Every single one of these points is its own broadcaster.	每一个点都是自己的广播站。
I believe this starts with an evolution of existing methods.	我相信这起源于对现有方式的变革。
So this whole project was an experiment.	所以这整个项目是一项实验。
It was originally written specifically with Twitter in mind.	它起初是明确与推特有关的故事
when this woman falls to her death.	也就是这个女人坠楼身亡的时间。
It was also Twitter as a production mechanism.	也将推特作为一个产生故事的机制。
All of these are rapid iterations on a theme.	所有这些都是关于一个主题的复述。
Keep in mind, they're all Democrats.	请记住，他们都是民主党人。
And they engage with the real world.	他们与真实的世界进行互动
It ended, a true narrative conclusion.	它结束了，一个真实的叙述性结论。
And I am illustrating Still.	我正好是一个静止的实例。
This was an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art.	这是现代艺术馆的一次展览。
These were just some of the things I've made.	这些只是我做过的一些东西。
I call myself a maker of things.	我称我自己是一个东西的制造者。
Industrial designers want to make novel things.	工业设计师想要做新奇的东西。
We mashed the clay with our feet when it came from the hillside.	我们用脚碾碎从山坡上找来的黏土。
And there I really worked as an apprentice.	那时我确实像一个学徒一样工作。
I said, I also have a pottery.	我说，我也有一个瓷器作坊。
This was a very dangerous accusation.	这是一个非常危险的指控。
I just looked at it, and I didn't know what to do.	我看着这一切，不知所措。
You've got to make something good out of something bad.	你得从坏事情中找到好的一面。
That was a desk took 40-some years to build.	这张桌子有我四十多年的心血。
She came. She's a nurse in San Francisco.	她来了。她在三藩市是一名护士。
I want pieces. Bits and pieces."	我要这些东西。哪怕是零碎的。
It's the only copy I had. Pieces of it.	这是我唯一的备份，它的一些碎片
You could cry about this." I really didn't.	你还是哭出来吧。"我真的没有
I mean, this was 16-millimeter safety film.	我是说，这是16毫米的安全胶片
She's still there. She's there this morning, actually.	她还在那里，事实上今天早上还在。
That's a subject that we want to dive into.	这是我们想要深入的话题。
I remember vividly, sitting there in the hospital.	我清楚地记得，坐在医院那儿。
So I was bracing myself for the moment.	所以我张口双臂等待拥抱的这一刻。
We have charted our love for our child over time.	我们用图表记录了我们对孩子的爱。
This, as you know, is an act of heresy.	你知道，这个行为挺邪乎的。
You're not allowed to chart love.	用图表来记录爱是不可思议的事情。
I enjoyed being pregnant. I loved it.	我喜欢怀孕，我热爱怀孕。
I felt incredibly connected to the community around me.	我感到和我周围的社区紧密相连。
I was shower with gifts and flowers and visitors.	大家来看我，送礼物，鲜花。
This is actually the last little image we have of him.	这是我们有关他的最后一张照片。
And I think, miscarriage is an invisible loss.	我想流产是一个隐形的损失。
There's something missing from these studies.	这些研究里缺乏了什么东西。
There's another factor in our case.	对我们家而言还有另一个因素。
It's a bad idea. Don't do it."	这是坏主意，不要这么做。"
And so how about that average baseline of happiness?	我们能不能将幸福的平均基线
Your eyes are pretty happy with some color and movement, you know.	眼睛倒是很乐于看到一些颜色和运动
Right, do you know where I'm going?	是的,你们知道我接下来要说什么?
And fortunately, it's right in here.	幸运地是,它就在这里--
A massive cardiac arrest.	就像一次严重心脏骤停般的影响。
Abuse of steroids, binging and so on.	还有滥用类固醇，狂欢作乐，等等。
We don't know which experts to believe anymore.	我们不知道再去相信哪些专家。
I've got a Ph.D. in Telecoms, as you can see.	我是电信博士，你们可以看到。
I trained briefly as a Buddhist monk under this guy.	我曾经短期师从此人，作一个佛教徒
They bring ideas from the margins into the mainstream.	它们把边缘的想法带入主流
They often lead to the acceleration of much-needed reforms.	他们往往加速了急需的改革
You can see it in daily life.	你们在日常生活中就能发现这些。
We know we can't go back to where we were before the crisis.	我们知道我们不能再回到危机之前
In science, we do experiments systematically.	在科学领域，我们系统的做实验
It's already immersed in social networks.	它已经扎根于社会网络中。
The crisis is almost certainly deepening around us.	危机几乎在我们周围不断深化。
It should be noted, of course, that the United States and the U.K. are the next in line.	需要注意美国和英国紧随其后。
Many of you have probably already noticed that I'm Chinese.	你们可能注意到了我是华裔。
Now, how might that be? Let me give you an example.	怎么解释呢，我举个例子。
You understood exactly what I just said in English.	你完全理解这个英文的意思。
I wouldn't have been able to convey so little information.	这里面传递的信息如此之多。
In contrast to that, that's almost exactly what you would say in Chinese.	中文的表达方式跟英文恰恰相反。
You speak English, a futured language.	你们说的是英语，区分将来时态的。
Now this is a fanciful theory.	现在我有了一套奇特的理论。
There are 1.4 billion different ways that a family can find itself.	14亿家庭每个家庭都有独特性。
Does this have cumulative effects?	这种差异是否有累积效应？
Can we push this data even further?	我们能够得到更多的结论么？
And that's exactly what we find.	我们的统计支持了我们的推断。
I could go on and on with the list of differences that you can find.	我可以这么一直不停地列举下去。
I get that all the time in Dubai.	在迪拜老是有人这样问我。
And in that time, I have seen a lot of changes.	在这期间，我目睹了很多变化。
Now that statistic is quite shocking.	那些统计数据是令人非常吃惊的。
How did those students get all that knowledge?	那些学生是怎样得到这些知识的呢？
But I do know that I've seen a lot of changes.	但是我知道我已目睹了很多变化。
So everybody wants to have an English education, naturally.	自然每个人都想得到英语教育。
But indeed, that is exactly what we do.	但是事实上，我们正是这样做的。
It feeds the English requirement.	它正好符合需要英语的条件。
And so it goes on.	于是它就继续这样发展下去。
I ask you, what happened to translation?	那我问你，翻译还需要吗？
And so light shone upon the Dark Ages of Europe.	于是欧洲黑暗的时代被点亮了。
I love it that we have a global language.	我热爱我们有一种全球性语言。
We need one today more than ever.	我们今天比过去任何时候都需要它。
But I am against using it as a barrier.	但是我反对用它设立障碍。
My daughter came to England from Kuwait.	我的女儿从科威特回到英国。
She had studied science and mathematics in Arabic.	她已经用阿拉伯语学了科学和数学。
Let us celebrate diversity.	让我们一起为多元化欢呼。
The green line goes down. That's the wild nature portion.	绿线持续下降，这是野生动物。
It is convenient to carry, assemble, and launch by hand.	它方便携带，简单易装，容易使用。
Battery-powered, it is silent and rarely noticed.	它是电池驱动的，零噪音，不起眼。
I'll give you a demonstration of how it works.	让我展示一下这个是怎么飞的，
And Asanga lived 800 years after the Buddha's time.	无著出生在佛教诞生的800多年后
So, Buddha's teaching has lost its momentum.	完全没有体现出佛教中的精髓思想。
And he left in disgust.	他很灰心，于是离开了闭关房
And he had a lump of iron.	那个人的面前是一根大铁棒
He went back to his cave. He meditated again.	于是他调转头，又回到闭关房
And then, suddenly, there's a pfft, a noise like that.	然而，无著突然听到啐的一声，
What is this?"	为什么从前你都不示现给我看？"
And so he looked very dubious, Asanga did.	无著疑惑的望着弥勒菩提。
So, naturally, they chased him out of town.	很自然的，人们把他赶出了城镇。
And also, actually, I've been your mother.	此外，我也可能前世是你们的母亲。
So, that's the way the Buddhists do it.	因此，佛教徒一直都这么认为。
And you think of him as nursing you.	而且你把他当成是还哺育你的母亲。
You want to repay that kindness that all beings have shown to you.	你想要报答那些对你友好的人
How boring to run around chasing you.	奔波追逐你是多么的乏味，
They would be relaxing somewhere having a good time.	他们必须在某个地方放松开心下。
And you look at them, and you see how they are.	你看着他们，看着他们所有的一切。
They're driven by this duty and this obligation.	他们的生活受到任务和责任的牵制，
But actually they are cruel to themselves.	但事实上，他们这样是在虐待自己。
And you then feel you must act.	然后你意识到必须开始行动了。
Never mind. I won't get into that.	不要紧，我不会去深入讨论这些的。
One thing we mustn't think is that compassion makes you miserable.	我们绝不能认为仁慈使你变得痛苦。
Compassion makes you happy.	而是要认为仁慈心使你幸福。
All of you know about the topic that I'm supposed to talk about.	你们都知道今天我要谈的这个话题
I'm going to come back to that in a moment.	我们一会就会重新回到这里
It's good to start with some examples.	举一些例子作为开头可能会好一些。
One is the cellphone, which we use every day.	一个是手机，我们每天都用
So, there are two ways of thinking about this word, I think.	我认为有两种方式来看待这个词
And you then ask the question: Why is the water hot?	然后你问了个问题为什么水是热的？
All of these are possibilities.	所有的这些答案都是可能的
You're not interested in the limits of these things.	你对这些东西的局限性不感兴趣
So what one is interested in has a lot to do with the rewards of the system.	你感兴趣的是这个系统的许多好处
The components interact with one another.	这些部分整合在一起形成一个整体
Anyone who tells you that we understand life, walk away.	任何告诉你我们理解生命人请走开
The Internet starts with mathematics, it starts with binary.	互联网起始于数学起始于二进制法则
They can be on and off. That's binary.	它们可以是开或关，这是二元的
Now wall switches, we all know, fail.	我们都知道，墙体开关，会失败
A transistor is nothing more than a wall switch.	晶体管于墙体开关没有区别
With integrated circuits, you can build cellphones.	用集成电路,你可以制造出手机
And this is a map of bitflows across the continent.	这是一幅大洲之间数据流量的图
And then back to simplicity again.	然后，我们回到有关简单的讨论
That is, you can stack them.	那就是说，你可以堆砌它们
So, how does one do that?	嗯，一个人怎么才能做到这些？
It wicks its way up into these little branches.	它被吸上去，进入这些小分支
So you can't make it too simple.	所以说你不可以做得过于简单
You've got a company set up to ...	你已经建立了一家公司来--
All right. Well, thank you so much for your talk. Thank you.	好的，非常感谢您的演讲，谢谢
That's the idea of creativity.	那就是一般认为的创造性。
More special people, more special places.	更多的特别的人，更特别的地方。
Expand the pipeline down to the consumers.	扩展一直延伸到消费者的渠道。
So, you're in a big corporation.	设想一下，你在一个大公司，
That sounds like a winner; we'll go with it."	这听起来好像能火，我们行动吧。"
They work at their leisure, if you like.	他们在休闲中工作，你可以这么说。
This is open; this is closed.	这边是开放的，这边是封闭的，
This is new; this is traditional.	这边是新的，这边是传统的。
They want to be part of that flow of information.	他们想成为信息流动中的一部分。
So, there's going to be a tremendous struggle.	于是也将产生极其严重的冲突。
What should be the role of public policy?	公共政策的角色应该是什么？
Every presentation needs this slide in it.	每一场展示都需要这张幻灯片。
Through that, I connect to people.	通过那个，我与他人相连。
For example, I get people to dress up their vacuum cleaners.	例如，我让人们装扮他们的吸尘器。
Ze Frank: So -- yeah.	泽佛兰克:所以——没错——
This was incredible; this is what I wanted to do.	这太帅了。这就是我想做的事。
So the first thing I thought of is we have to thank him.	所以我首先想到的，就是要感谢他。
And have to do something with it."	我们需要对它做点儿什么。"
It was done by a guy named Goose.	是由一个叫古斯的人制作的。
In two weeks, they found him.	结果两个星期后，人们找到了他。
It's the fundamental force that we're all after.	这是我们都在追求的根本的力量。
And that's not always going to happen in physical spaces.	在实体空间内，这不一定总能成功。
Sometimes they're very, very simple things.	有时仅仅是非常非常简单的事情。
It had 'Chad' written in magic marker on it.	上面用麦克笔写着'查德'。
Sometimes they're a little bit more abstract.	有时候这些瞬间更为抽象一点。
This is Pain Pack.	这个计划名叫"痛苦包"。
And so some really nice things came together.	于是一些很美好的事情发生了。
Together, for our future."	为了明天，我们一同努力。"
And I shut that part down.	之后就不再接受这方面的邮件。
And I felt badly for not having done a good job.	我对于没有扮演好她感觉很难受。
It's really a very precisely timed thing.	时机的掌握真的需要恰到好处。
They had other sorts of brain damage.	他们也有其他类型的脑损伤。
And there is a variant of this gene that is in the normal population.	正常人群中是有这个基因的变种。
She then told me about our own family tree.	她随后就告诉了我们自己的家庭史。
Okay, now this gives one a little pause.	这就让人不得不倒吸口冷气了。
They have the same brain, and the same EEG.	同样的大脑，同样的脑电图。
And now they are close as can be.	但他们现在却是亲密无间。
It's the biggest scientific experiment ever attempted.	是有史以来开展过最大的科学实验
They're essentially digital cameras.	探测器基本上就是数码相机
And this is the one that I work on, ATLAS.	而这是我所任职的那台，ATLAS
And, as of today, it's made of these things.	如今我们发现，它由这些形成
Relative to the universe, it's just up the road.	相对宇宙来说就在马路那头
These carriers of the weak force, the Zs, the same.	同样道理这些Z代表弱力的携带者
But there's an extra symbol in this equation: H.	但是这个等式里多了一个符号，H
So it's a prediction: a prediction of a new particle.	所以这是个推论对一个新粒子的预测
And we came up with this analogy, and it seemed to work.	于是我们想出了这个比较合适的类比
Higgs particles, if you will.	希格斯介子，如果你绕不过来
And that's exactly the way the Higgs mechanism works.	这就是希格斯介子的工作机制
One of them you heard about: dark matter, dark energy.	其中你听过暗物质，暗能量
This is a creation story, I think, equally as wonderful.	我想，这是一个同样伟大的故事
And, the laws of physics. Right?	还有，就是物理定律，对吧？
So, the right laws of physics -- they're beautifully balanced.	所以，真正的物理定律都精妙地平衡
And I think that's a wonderful and significant story.	我认为这是一个辉煌壮美的故事
I wanted to save the world and then make everyone happy.	我想要拯救世界并让所有人快乐
But now I know it was all in his smile.	但是现在我知道其实是来自他的微笑
And even blind babies smile to the sound of the human voice.	失明的婴儿听到人声时也会微笑
But this use of colors was not just an artistic act.	这些颜色的使用不光是为了追求艺术
Then he was kind of troubled, and asked me for a compromise.	他也很为难并请我作出让步
And when colors came out everywhere, a mood of change started transforming the spirit of people.	当各处有了颜色人们的精神开始转变
What are colors doing to us?"	这些颜色对我们有什么影响？
They had thrown the old shutter in the garbage collection place.	他们把旧的卷帘门扔进垃圾回收处
And indeed, it was beauty that was giving people this feeling of being protected.	事实上，是美给了人们被保护的感觉
They were paying in order to skip the queue, the long queue.	他们为了不排长队就得付钱
It's about system, it's about organization.	这是体制问题，是组织问题
We put the citizen first, and not the clerks.	我们以公民优先，而不是公务员
Our world is defined by the pace of change.	我们的世界是根据变化来定义的
And there is a major shift coming on the horizon.	海平线即将发生重大的改变
Haiti was a game changer.	海地地震改变了环境的规则
Haiti was something we hadn't seen before.	海地的情况是我们未曾见过的
We wanted to communicate in a two-way form of communication.	我们希望以双方交流的方式进行交流
We didn't want to shout; we needed to listen as well.	我们不想只是呼吁，我们需要倾听
We wanted to be able to target specific geographic communities.	我们希望瞄准特定地理区域
It has been used to help communities prepare for disasters.	它已经被用来帮助社区的灾前准备
You can find out about the latest impromptu music session.	你可以找到最新的即兴音乐会
You can feel the dynamism of this living, breathing community.	你可以感受到社区的活力四射
And they are giving a voice to themselves.	他们可以向世界说出自己的心声
SMS is even used to hold herder summits from remote participation.	短信服务甚至让牧羊人参与远程活动
and convert it to humanitarian good.	继而再为人类作出好的贡献
There are no more reasons not to do it.	没有什么理由阻止我们那样做了
And through all of this, I had to hold a torch between my teeth.	而且同时我还得牙咬着手电照明。
But these were not the major preoccupations of my day.	但这些并不是我一天中最重要的任务
You and I can experience things without a story.	你和我可以不通过故事体验事情
Discrete moments from our lives are its chapters.	独立生活场景来组成一个个章节
But the story is not about these chapters.	但故事并不是仅仅是这些章节
Without it, we would have no music.	没有时间的流逝，我们无法获得音乐
I think that technology has altered that flow of time.	我认为科技已经改变的时间的流逝
What happens when that arrow goes awry?	时间箭头的方向出错了会如何？
We all know that the Internet has shrunk space as well as time.	我们知道互联网拉近了空间和时间。
Find other people reading those books.	找那些正在阅读此类书的读者。
There were those with power and water, and those without.	居所分为有水有电的和没有的。
How does one live inside distraction?	一个人如何生活在分心中?
Possibly, but I remember my childhood.	也许，但是我记起了我的童年。
They're like soap bubbles that disappear when we touch them.	它们象肥皂泡，我们一触即破。
At such moments, our selves are complete.	在这些时刻，我们自己是完整的。
The present joins a flow of time from before and after.	当下汇聚流失的时间从过去和之后。
I first experienced these feelings with my grandmother.	我第一次体验到它是和我的祖母。
But we don't need to let it.	不过我们可以不让它发生。
We can choose to take time back.	我们可以选择夺回"时间"
In South Africa, they have a phrase called Ubuntu.	南非语有一个词叫乌班图，
It's really very simple, but really very complicated.	这很简单，但是事实上非常复杂。
My mother said, "Someone has to."	我妈说，"总有人要牺牲。"
It was my mother with five little children.	我妈妈当时带着五个孩子。
Dirges so melancholic that they would scorch you.	挽歌非常忧沉，会将你灼伤。
But today, women are rebuilding Rwanda.	但是今天妇女在重振卢旺达。
And I was supposed to do this alone.	而且我还必须一个人完成。
He just sat there watching me cry for an hour.	他只是坐在那里看我哭了一个小时。
So, I was born two days after Christmas.	我的生日是在圣诞节后的两天。
Take anything you want out of the suitcase.	打开行李箱，想拿什么拿什么。
So, here was this 14-year-old kid on death row.	当时这个14岁的男孩在死囚区。
He didn't know what death row meant.	他不知道死囚区意味着什么。
And he said, "Oh, I heard it on the grapevine."	他说，"我打听来的小道消息。"
This is how they came to reclaim their humanity.	这就是他们如何宣扬他们的人性。
It doesn't require a tremendous thing.	这不需要轰轰烈烈的壮举。
I offer to this ground, this gin.	我走向大地，端着杜松子酒。
I call a name that could be his.	我轻唤他的名字，不知是真是假，
This gin, this salty earth."	这杯杜松子酒，这咸咸的土地。"
So here is a complete picture of the universe about 14-odd billion years ago.	这就是大约140亿年前宇宙的全景
So you're now about 14 billion years into this.	从那时到今天已经有140亿年了
And so what you're watching is the birth of stars.	你们正在看到的是恒星的诞生
Well, why would one ask a question like that?	好吧，怎么会有人问这种问题呢？
So it turns out that we have upgraded.	这表明我们确实"升级"过
We've upgraded time and again and again.	我们曾经一次又一次的"升级"
Well Svante Paabo has the answer.	SvantePaabo给出了答案
That's how big the difference is one species to another.	这就是两个物种之间差异的大小
This explains most contemporary political debates.	这就解释了现在大多数的政治纠纷
And as you're thinking about this, we're continuing to mutate.	大家想想看我们一直在变异
And this is continuing and continuing and continuing.	这种变异一直持续着、持续至
We're going to know at year end if that is true.	今年年底我们就将知道这是不是真的
And we may just be in some of these weeks.	我们现在也许就处在重大变革的前夕
And he gave a wonderful technical talk.	他带来了很精彩的技术演讲
Because these technologies are moving really quickly.	因为这些技术发展的非常之快
Here's the increase in less than a decade.	这是在这不到10年间所增加的数量
And we still don't know why this is happening.	我们到现在也不知道为什么是这样
I don't have a good answer.	我没法给出一个漂亮的答案
There really needs to be more research on this.	这方面还需要更进一步的研究
One option is the fast food fetish.	一个可能的答案是对于快餐迷恋
A second option is the sexy geek option.	第二种选项是"性感的书呆子"
The third, is this too much information?	第三，信息是不是太多了？
Other people get hyper-sensitive to the amount of information.	一些人对大量信息过度敏感
Or maybe it's chemicals.	又或许是化学试剂造成的？
What I think we are doing is we're transitioning as a species.	我认为作为一个物种我们正在转化
I'm here today to talk about autonomous, flying beach balls.	我今天想谈谈自主飞行沙滩球
No, agile aerial robots like this one.	其实，是小型飞行器，像这一个
So these robots are related to unmanned aerial vehicles.	这些飞行器源于无人驾驶的飞行器
They weigh thousands of pounds, are not by any means agile.	通常上万磅重毫无灵活型可言
They're not even autonomous.	它们也不是真的自主飞行的
And as you can see, it's about eight inches in diameter.	你能看到它的直径大约只有八个英寸
That's basically how this thing operates.	简单地说这些飞行器就是这么工作的
And there are lots of physical parameters that change as you reduce R.	当半径变小时很多物理参数都会变
The smaller you make it the more quickly you can turn.	当半径越小时飞行器能转弯越快
Multiple flips, a little more time.	连续翻转，稍微时间长一点
So why build robots like this?	为什么我们要设计这种飞行器呢？
Well robots like this have many applications.	因为这样的飞行器有很多用处
In fact, they live in a 12-dimensional space.	事实上它们总在对付十二维的空间
So this robot minimizes snap.	这个飞行器把加加加速度最小化
So the robot is obviously capable of executing any curve trajectory.	显然这个飞行器能飞出一个曲线轨道
So these ants don't have any central coordinator.	这些蚂蚁没有任何中央调控
So this is the kind of coordination we want our robots to have.	这样的协调正是飞行器需要的
So this also has to be done in a decentralized way.	所以这个程序是分散化执行的
So again, these robots come really close together.	我想强调，这些飞行器距离都很近
But you do gain in terms of payload carrying capacity.	但是你可以增加载荷承载量
And it navigates with respect to those features.	还能利用周围环境为自己找到出路
But the robot can also figure out where to go on its own.	但是它自己也可以弄明白怎么飞
And that's how it populates this map.	这就是它怎么填充这个地图
So I want to leave you with one last application.	这里我想展示给大家最后一个用途
I'm a professor, and we're passionate about education.	我是个教授，我们很关心教育
This man is wearing what we call a bee beard.	这个人的胡子被我们叫作蜜蜂胡子
Notice that this man is not getting stung.	我们发现这个男子并没有蜇伤
Check out this image above the orange line in Boston.	看看这个波士顿橘线上面照的相片。
Try to spot the beehive. It's there.	把蜂窝的地方标记起来，在这里。
You can see the orientation. The stem is down.	注意到方向。它是向下连到枝条的。
A bit counterintuitive, right?	听起来有点违背常理，对吧?
You think in the city maybe the temperature's warmer.	也许你会想到在城市里气温会更高。
A lot of linden trees live along the railroad tracks.	许多椴树沿着火车铁轨生长
It's 1968, and we're pretty much covering Asia.	到了1968年，亚洲已被完全覆盖
The bees just aren't around anymore.	因为他们周围已经没有蜜蜂了
I got my Ph.D. studying honeybee health.	我的博士论文研究的是蜂群的健康
So my research focuses on ways to make bees healthier.	我的研究重心在于如何使蜂群更健康
I mean, really open your mind with this.	我是说，真的敞开心胸想想
You can paint a hive to match your home.	你可以把蜂箱漆成和你家相配的颜色
You can hide a hive inside your home.	你可以在家里面藏一个蜂箱
We have also some images of honey from Brooklyn.	这里还有一些从布鲁克林产的蜂蜜
Well, really, just change your perspective.	说真的，你只要转换你的心态
You could even get your own hive if you want.	你想要的话，你也能拥有一个蜂巢
So I'm going to bake bread for you.	所以我要为你们烤一份面包。
First of all, a little bit of audience participation.	第一，一点点观众参与节目。
Here we go. I want to see a show of hands.	开始吧，我想看一场手上的表演。
I have two tentative male hands.	我得到了两个精明的男士的手。
A way that is perhaps more real, more honest.	一种大约更真实，更诚恳的方法。
And this is about good taste, good traditions.	而且这是好吃的，好的传统。
That is the reality of our modern life.	这就是我们现代生活的现实。
Now you may prefer this loaf of bread.	现在也许你更喜欢这条面包。
And the world population in the meantime has doubled.	同时世界的人口数也升了一倍。
What happened to our bread in the meantime?	那同时我们的面包又怎么样了呢？
And the whiter the bread, in many countries, the better it is.	而且在很多国家，面包越白越好。
So this is the story of bread as we know it now.	所以现在我们知道了面包的故事。
Don't we all agree? I certainly agree.	我们都不同意吗？我当然同意。
So we must find other solutions.	所以我们必须找到另外的解决方法。
Yes. But we need mechanization.	可以，但是我们需要机械化。
But yes there are some solutions.	但是的确这里有一些解决方法。
We have much cleverer irrigation.	我们有更聪明的灌溉系统。
We need to think that land is multi-functional.	我们必须想到土地是多功能的。
And we also need to re-examine livestock.	我们也必须去重估畜牧业。
Everything is linked together.	所有的事情都是交融在一起的。
And that frees you up to do other things.	而那会解放你去做其他的事情。
We need to help to lift them out of poverty.	我们需要帮助他们脱离贫穷。
It's not about nutrients and calories.	它不仅仅是营养和卡路里。
So if you're in a building, you can take an elevator.	比如在建筑物里，你可以乘电梯
If you're crossing the street, you have sidewalk cutouts.	过马路时，你可以走专门的人行道
But in the developing world, things are quite different.	然而在发展中国家，情况就非常不同
So as is the case with simple solutions, oftentimes the answer is right in front of your face, and for us it was levers.	答案常常就在眼前那就是杠杆
And these are all merits that are not just good in the developing world.	这些优点不只能套用在开发中国家
Why not in countries like the U.S. too?	也可以带到像美国这样的国家
And today is a time for me to talk to you about water.	今天我要和大家讲一下水。
It's been a roller coaster ride.	这是一趟充满刺激的旅程。
One of them was the remarkable gharial.	一个是非比寻常的长吻鄂。
The king cobra is quite remarkable for several reasons.	眼镜王蛇的非凡有它的道理。
And it brought me straight into the conservation fray.	把我带入了关于自然保护的争论中，
It was very important for us to get through to the people.	和民众建立联系对我们来说很重要，
The people of this part of India worship the king cobra.	这一地区的印度人崇拜眼镜王蛇。
This was just a few days ago in Agumbe.	这是在阿古比，就在几天前。
And it does it in such a way that it doesn't get bitten itself.	身手如此敏捷，自己毫发未伤。
But they do also a lot of other remarkable things.	它们还有很多其他惊人的行为。
It's just a wresting match, but a remarkable activity.	这是一场摔跤比赛，但是与众不同。
Now, what are we doing with all this information?	那么，我们用这些信息做什么呢？
What's the point of all this?	我们所做的一切是为了什么？
And now the king cobra is a new one.	现在眼镜王蛇成了新标志。
And what do we do? How do we respond to this?	而我们做了什么？我们怎么回报的？
You drink it in peril of your life.	你们其实是在冒着生命危险喝水。
It survived even during the time that the dinosaurs died off.	恐龙灭绝了，它们却存活了下来。
It has remarkable features.	它们的身上有很多惊人的地方。
Why? How could it happen?	为什么？发生什么问题了？
Because these rivers are the lifeblood of people all along their course.	这些河流无疑是当地人的生命线。
The Chambal river is an absolutely incredible place.	昌巴尔河是个不可思议的地方，
But, again, heavy fishing pressures.	但是，渔业使它不堪重负。
We've got a lot of a good team of people working up there.	我们有很多很好的团队在为此努力。
But out on the rivers there are still millions of people who are in really bad shape.	但是在外头有数百万人身陷困境。
So, people talk about political will.	于是大家想到了政治因素。
But I think the final note really is that we can do it.	不过我还是坚信我们终会成功。
And there is a gharial looking at us from the river.	和一条长吻鄂在看着我们，
Do you have those conversations with people?	你有没有与这样的人交谈过？
But I sort of -- there is an innocence in these animals.	但是，它们身上也有一种纯真。
And that is the truth. And that's what I try to get out.	这是事实。也是我想告诉大家的。
You were saying that that hasn't been filmed before.	你说以前从拍摄到过这样的场景。
To me, that's the real natural wonder.	对我来说，这就是真正的自然奇迹。
And it's not a diet.	而它不只是一个饮食计划。
Well, because it helps them get through the day.	嗯，因为吸烟可以打发无聊的时光。
The most effective anti-smoking ad was this one.	这是一个最有效的反吸烟广告。
The other way is to change the type of food.	另外一种方法是改变食物的种类。
But insulin accelerates the conversion of calories into fat.	但胰岛素会加快卡路里向脂肪的转化
He says, "I've got some good news.	他说，"我有一些好消息，
Other studies have shown this as well.	其他研究也显示了这种现象。
but I was getting younger than everybody else?	却变得比比人年轻了会怎样？
some you could see, some you couldn't.	一些你能看到，一些你不能。
We took a lot of meetings and we seriously considered it.	我们开了很多会并认真的考虑了
But at the time we had to throw in the towel.	但是当时我们不得不投降认输
David is fearless of technology, and he is absolutely tenacious.	他无惧于技术，并且绝对固执。
And David won't take "no."	并且大卫不会接受"不"。
We even ruled out the idea of using makeup.	我们划掉了使用化妆的想法。
He needed to be a very sympathetic character.	他需要一个非常的意气相投的人物。
So there really was no tolerable margin of error.	所以这里边没有容错的空间。
There were two studios involved: Warner Brothers and Paramount.	华纳兄弟和派拉蒙参与在其中。
There was lots of money and reputations at stake.	很多的钱与声誉都处在危险关头。
And it worked. And it gave the studio great relief.	这个成了。制片厂松了一口气。
You know, this is some tough stuff.	你知道，这是一些艰难的东西。
So we had three main areas that we had to focus on.	我们有三个主要的需要专注的地方。
So we focused on motion capture.	因此我们集中在运动捕捉。
I'll give you an example here.	这里我给你们举一个例子。
We needed creases and dimples and wrinkles and all of those things.	我们需要皱纹，酒窝之类的
We started to look out in other fields.	我们开始在其他领域需求帮助
And we had to create kind of a sauce.	或者我们需要一项全新的技术
So, clearly, we were in a substantially better place for this.	显而易见，这种技术是多么优越了
We could go up into the millions of polygons.	右边这个却已经打到了上亿个顶点
Next we had to go into the shooting process.	下一步，我们已进入了拍摄过程。
So these are the gentleman who played Benjamin.	因此，这是绅士玩本杰明。
His job, then, was to become Benjamin.	当时他的工作成为本杰明。
And here you can see the body actor.	在这里你可以看到演员的身体。
We had to create a lighting system.	我们必须创造一个照明系统。
We also had to create an eye system.	我们还必须建立一个眼系统。
We also had to create a mouth system.	我们还必须创建一个口系统。
But, that is Benjamin. Thank you.	但是，这是本杰明。谢谢。
And the bear cubs were being harvested from across the country and being sold and traded.	熊仔从全国各地搜罗而来被买卖
Their teeth are basically bashed out with a metal rod.	他们的牙齿会被用铁棍敲掉
And we were so unsure that this would work.	到底这能不能行?我们实在没有把握
And then it started, there was no turning back after that.	当这一切发生时，再也没有回头路了
They only had Islamic education, very little of it.	只有少的可怜的伊斯兰教育
Of course we also had to get the bears in.	当然，我们还是要拯救这些熊
We have a veterinary facility in our rescue centers.	在拯救中心我们有专门的兽医机构
We rescued over 550 dancing bears.	其中我们拯救了超过五百五十只
And there will be no more removing of these bears.	这些熊再也不会被捕捉被带走
[SHIT] This is arguably the back end of the design of animals.	屎这个可以说是动物的最终产品。
And this is a real crisis for them.	对他们来说，这实在是一个危机啊。
So I did the next best thing.	我做了接下来要说的这件好事。
I want you to inspect its mouth, look at its teeth.	我希望你观察它的嘴，它的牙齿。
Go underneath it. Go above it. Go around it.	看它的上面、下面，绕着它走。
I want you to get as close to that camel as you possibly can."	我希望你可以尽你所能地接近它。"
I'm here to look at the ultimate desert machine.	我是来这看看终极沙漠机器的。
And they use them in the same way we use our binocular vision.	它们就像我们用眼睛一样用耳朵
They use them to pinpoint sound.	所以它们可以用耳朵定位声音来源
Like a lot of predators, they walk on their toes.	像很多食肉动物一样，它们用脚走路
You can't really see too clear. The fur's kind of grown over.	你看不太清楚，因为毛遮住了。
These big, big rumbling sounds. He will do the same thing.	巨大的隆隆声。它会做一样的事情。
He's basically a walking mulch pile.	它实际上就是一个行走的松土机。
But now, we're going to meet -- out! Out!	现在，我们将要见面，外面
And that's how he really marks his territory.	那也是它标记它领土的方式。
Camel seeking camel.	本骆驼正在找寻另一半的它
Lusty beast desires attractive &amp; sincere mate.	精力充沛的我期待着迷人而真诚的她
Amazingly full lips that allow me to eat practically anything that grows.	性感厚唇……使俺可以吃任何植物。
I'm able to lose 40 percent of my weight without dying.	即使是减重40%我依旧顽强地活着
Bedouins call the camel the Gift of God.	贝多因人称我们为上帝的礼物。
My dried bones are prized as a sort of ivory.	我风干后的骨头珍贵如象牙
I mean, let's let the reader do a little work.	我说，就让读者动一小会脑子吧。
Start a meeting with a poem. That would be an idea you might take with you.	你也许愿意尝试以诗开始一场会议。
BC: So that makes it seem a little easier.	看上去动画是对诗的理解有所帮助。
So I like to at least pretend it just flows out.	总之，我宁愿装作我下笔如流。
A friend of mine has a slogan; he's another poet.	我另一个诗人朋友有句口号，
And it uses the imagery of dollhouse furniture.	它使用的意象是玩具屋中的家具。
BC: There's a horror movie in there somewhere.	这里一定带有恐怖片的成分。
And in that way we traded lore with each other.	我们用这种方式交换知识。
So the little poem is called "The Dead."	所以这首诗名叫"已故之人"。
They watch the tops of our heads moving below on Earth.	他们会看着我们的头顶在人间移动。
BC: I'm not sure if other poems will be animated.	我不确定别的诗会不会配动画。
I mean, we had the wheel for some time.	我是说，我们很久前就有了轮子。
And schlepping is an ancient and honorable art.	生拉硬拽是一个古老而崇高的艺术。
And it's addressed to a certain person.	我将它送给一位特定的人。
This is me at an early age with a baby chimpanzee.	这就是我年轻时抱着一头小猩猩。
The only thing that matters is that you win or that you lose.	唯一要紧的是你赢了或输了。
But why would you reconcile after a fight?	但为什么打完架再和解呢？
I think it's a very unfair image for the wolf.	我觉得这对于狼来说是不公平的。
And so they're absolutely essential.	所以，它们是绝对必要的。
And of course, there's food on the box.	当然喽，盒子上面有食物。
Otherwise they wouldn't be pulling so hard.	不然他们也不会卖力来拖。
So he will get a return favor at some point in the future.	所以，有朝一日他会得到报恩。
Now with elephants, it's very dangerous to work with elephants.	说起大象，跟它们工作也挺危险的。
So two elephants need to pick it up at exactly the same time and pull.	两头大象必须同时捡起绳子同时拉。
The apparatus is on the left with food on it.	工具放在左边，上面放着食物。
But it shows the intelligence that the elephants have.	这也看出大象的聪明才智。
Now look at the other. The other doesn't forget to eat, of course.	看看另一头。它可没忘记吃。
Also, we know that people who have a lot of yawn contagion are highly empathic.	我们对打哈欠传染有很高的共识。
That's consolation. It's very similar to human consolation.	这就是安慰。跟人类安慰很像的。
And consolation behavior, it's empathy driven.	这种安慰行为就是来自共鸣。
And here you have the two color tokens.	这里有两种颜色的代用币。
Then the next one is the pro-social token.	下一个就是"利他"代用币。
So the one who makes the choices always gets a reward.	所以，做选择的这个总得到奖赏。
And we did that originally with capuchin monkeys.	我们最初做实验的是卷尾猴。
And I'm going to show you the first experiment that we did.	我会给你看一下我们的第一个实验。
And there's a very simple task that they need to do.	给他们准备很简单的任务。
So that's the experiment we did.	我们的实验就是这样做的。
And we give her a piece of cucumber and she eats it.	我们给她一片黄瓜，她吃掉了。
She gives a rock to us now, gets, again, cucumber.	她又朝我们扔石头，又得到了黄瓜。
So we're getting very close to the human sense of fairness.	我们离人类的公正很近了。
I believe there's an evolved morality.	我相信有一种进化来的道德。
Now, there he is calling to his friends.	现在，他号召他的朋友们来参与。
It takes guts to stand out like that.	有人得有勇气像那样站出来行动。
So a movement must be public.	因此运动必须是公开大众的。
Now we've got momentum. This is the tipping point.	现在有了好兆头。这就是转折点。
Now we've got a movement.	现在我们已经形成了一场运动。
And here's a little image of that.	现在已经没什么太大印象了
So I decided to follow all the rules of the Bible.	所以我决定遵循圣经的所有条例
And I have to say, thank God.	我必须要说，谢天谢地终于结束了
And you have to reapply it every two to four hours.	同时，必须每2-4个小时再涂一次
And you can see there they're shopping with their helmets.	如你所见他们连购物都带着头盔
So I finished.	我于是停止了这些健康计划
Without the sex part.	当然这里可没有关于性的部分
But the over-eating and over-drinking, definitely.	不过大吃大喝是肯定要有的
It was really a life-changing project.	这真是个能够改变生活的计划
And I, of course, don't have time to go into all of them.	当然，我没有足够的时间去逐个体验
Because we live in such a noisy world.	我们生活在一个嘈杂的世界
A loud noise will get your fight-or-flight response going.	高分贝噪声会让你启动应急机制
And by the way, it's also terrible for your brain.	同时它还对人的大脑非常有害
And our Founding Fathers knew about this.	我们的建国先父们认识到了这些
To give just one example, we love crunchiness, mouthfeel.	比如说我们喜欢脆脆的口感
And I hope that I don't get sick during the book tour.	我希望新书宣传的时候我不要病倒
I'm a neuroscientist, and I study decision-making.	我是位神经学家，我研究决策制定
And I think a lot of scientists have this attitude.	我想很多科学家都有这样的态度
I could totally have used this 10 minutes ago.	十分钟前我要是喝上一瓶就好了
So how'd they figure this out?	那么他们是如何得出结论的呢？
So he's calling oxytocin "the moral molecule."	所以他称催产素为"道德分子"
We see it in supermarkets, on book covers.	我们可以在超市，图书封面看到这些
But we're not there yet.	但我们目前还未能取得这样的成果
Ask the tough questions. Ask to see the evidence.	问些难以回答的问题，问有何证据
All knowledge of the English language and the English alphabet has been lost.	英语和英语字母也都消失殆尽
Perhaps some circular pieces of metal.	或者发现一些圆形的金属碎片
In fact, what archeologists have found is none of that.	事实上考古学者没有发现那些
They've found small objects such as these.	他们发现了这样一些小物件
Or perhaps an ordinary person like you or me?	或者是一个普通人如你和我？
We don't know what any of these symbols mean.	我们不知道这些符号是什么意思
The symbols are most commonly found on seals.	这些符号大多数出现在印章上
These were used to make those kinds of packing slips.	这些就是用来做那些送货单的
First, there's no Rosetta Stone.	首先，我们没有罗塞塔石碑
We don't have such an artifact for the Indus script.	印度河文化中并没有发现同样的古物
And I'd like to describe some of the results that we have found.	我想在这里介绍我们发现的一些结果
Or better yet, let's all collectively decipher.	或者更好的是，让我们一起来破解吧
Here are two texts that contain some symbols on them.	这里有两段相同符号的文字
Okay. Right to left, how many? Okay.	好，从右到左，有多少人同意？好
The Indus script also exhibits similar kinds of patterns.	印度河文字也有类似的模式
There's a lot of text that start with this diamond-shaped symbol.	有很多段文字的开头都有菱形符号
Given such patterns, here was our idea.	看出这些惯用模式后，我们有个想法
There's also practical use for this particular procedure.	这种预测方法会派到实际的用处
Such a random jumble of letters is said to have a very high entropy.	这些随机混乱的字母说明了很高的熵
This is a physics and information theory term.	这是物理学和信息理论的说法
But just imagine it's a really random jumble of letters.	但想像这是相当随机混乱的字母排列
Here's a graph that plots the entropies of a whole bunch of sequences.	这个图表显示了一大堆顺序的熵值
The same thing happens in the case of the Indus script.	这同样也发生在印度河文字中
And why were they found there?	它们怎么会出现在那里呢？
It's just like our English and Dutch example.	就好比英语和荷兰语的例子
These are our ancestors -- yours and mine.	他们是我们的祖先你们的也是我们的
They were silenced by an unfortunate accident of history.	因为在历史发展中不幸偶然地沉寂了
Space, we all know what it looks like.	太空，我们都知道它是什么样子。
So what were these strange noises?	那这些奇怪的噪声是什么呢？
Radio could carry sound without wires.	无线电波不需电线就能携带声音。
Let's jump ahead again.	让我们再往前跳一段时间。
There were pigeons roosting in the dish.	有鸽子在碟盘状天线上安家。
And of course, we all will be deeply disappointed when we do.	当然那时我们都会深深感到失望。
What do they want from me? Like, who's that?	他们想从我这里得到什么？他是谁？
Who is it who's going to get enough attention from the world?	谁会得到世界足够的关注？
Who's going to get enough out of the world?	谁能在这个世界里得到满足？
I need a hundred billion." So I'm like that.	我需要一千亿，我就是那样。
He feels the way they are harvesting yaks nowadays.	他感觉得到现今他们屠杀的方式。
And yet he's very jolly. He's extremely jolly.	他还是很快乐的。他异常喜乐。
Now, Jim's brain is memorizing the almanac.	比如，吉姆的大脑在记忆历书。
I'm going to think of how other people can be happy.	我要想想如何使其他人快乐。
We have now, and are the first generation with, the power to do this.	我们是有能力做到这一切的第一代。
Take the financial crisis.	再来看看当下的金融危机。
There is a photograph of a boy called David.	照片中的小男孩叫做大卫。
Beside that photograph there is the information about his life.	而照片旁边则是大卫的生平简介。
They said, "Let's march."	他们会说，"让我们行动起来吧。"
We have to first know what a foot is.	首先我们需要知道脚是什么。
Maybe you're familiar with this literature.	也许你对这些作品很熟悉。
The problem is, there are many, many feet.	问题是，这里有很多很多只脚。
Now how could it do that? Well, look more carefully.	它是怎么办到的？好吧，仔细的看。
We've also described another species of bipedal octopus.	我们也关注了另一种双足章鱼。
This one disguises itself as floating algae.	这一只将自己伪装成了浮动的海藻。
You can see it here well on this debris.	你可以从这里看它穿过这些碎片。
When you touched the cockroach leg, what did it feel like?	当你摸蟑螂的腿时，有什么感觉？
A little better than nature.	比自然形成的稍微好一些。
And watch again, right there -- successful.	现在再看一遍，就这样——成功。
It looks, in fact, like it's swimming up the surface.	看上去像从表面上游了上去。
Can you use this to make a better robot?	可以利用这个制造更好的机器人吗？
So to our blueprint, let's attach claws.	在我们的蓝图上加上爪子。
These are all from different insects.	这些都是来自不同的昆虫。
Let's look at that ant.	让我们来观察一下这只蚂蚁。
This is when its foot's in the air.	这是蚂蚁自然状态下的脚。
So to our blueprint, we stick on some sticky pads.	所以要在我们的蓝图上添加粘胶垫。
Very strange. How do they stick?	很奇怪。他们是怎么粘上的？
We discovered they work by intermolecular forces alone.	我们发现它们只用分子间引力作用。
You have the audio? You can hear it go up.	你们有耳机吧？可以听到它往上走。
And here it is coming up at you, in its first steps up a wall.	它在向你走来，第一次爬墙。
Otherwise these secrets will be lost forever.	否则这些秘密就将永远被丢失了。
Dolphins and toothed whales use echolocation.	海豚和齿鲸使用回声定位。
Of the ones that stayed, their reproductive rate declined.	而留下的那些海豚的繁殖率下降了。
They just sang the cool new west coast song.	它们都在唱着新的西海岸的酷歌。
But you can still hear that faint call.	但你仍能听到这微弱的叫声。
Imagine that whale listening from 500 miles.	想象一下鲸在500英里远处倾听。
And as we get farther away, the sound gets fainter and fainter.	当我们里的更远时声音越来越微弱。
And as you can see, the risk of collision is much lower.	如你所见，碰撞的风险小了很多。
So it's very promising, actually.	因而这一方法实际上非常有希望。
They rush as fast as they can to get to their port.	他们尽其可能的快速到达港口。
We're going to have a personal universe.	我们将有一个个性化的宇宙。
I think we're going to see a community of storytellers evolve and emerge.	拭目以待将来故事家的涌现。
The whole resources are there available for you.	所有的资源都在这里，为你所用。
And so WorldWide Telescope will be available this spring.	"万维天文望远镜"今年春天发布。
Other than that, there's not much of a problem.	除此之外，没有什么大的问题
What's the evidence of wiping out?	那么这种衰落有什么迹象吗？
And we're seeing a steady increase among males.	这一问题在男性群体中不断增长
Arousal addiction, you want different.	兴奋成瘾，你想要不同的兴奋体验
So you need the novelty in order for the arousal to be sustained.	因此你需要新奇感来持续这种兴奋
And the problem is the industry is supplying it.	问题是有产业来满足这种需求
So the effect, very quickly, is it's a new kind of arousal.	因此这导致快速得供给新的兴奋
It's completely intuitive; there's no instruction manual.	它非常的直观；不需要操作指南。
The interface just kind of disappears.	操作界面就好像消失了一样。
This is a photographer's light box application.	这是一个给摄影师的看片的程序。
Now, of course, I can bring up a keyboard.	当然，我可以打开一个键盘。
And you notice what it does.	你会注意到它是怎么做的。
I grew up in a traditional Mexican family.	生在一个传统的墨西哥家庭
Firstly, because I'm the one who's going to say it.	这首先是因为我是那个要讲话的人
It's not necessary for understanding the importance of what I'm going to say.	这与我所要谈到的内容毫无关系
I think we have a problem in Mexico.	我认为，墨西哥正面临一个问题
Corruption? Poverty? Or is it something else?	是腐败?贫困?还是其它方面？
I think none of these is the problem.	我认为这些都不是问题所在
I don't mean they don't deserve attention.	我不是说这些问题不值得关注
What if none of these things is the problem?	要是这些都不是问题所在呢？
The problem is that we play the role of victims.	问题在于我们总在扮演受害者
The first level, the weakest level of civil response against violence, is denial and apathy.	最弱的反应就是闭口不提，无动于衷
We want to pretend that Mexico has the flu.	我们假装墨西哥患的是感冒
Many people in Mexico are afraid today.	现在，墨西哥有许多人都感到恐惧
Now we're experiencing one every week.	现在，几乎每周都会发生一起
Of course, criminals can respond.	当然，犯罪分子也会做出回应
That devotion we feel for the national football team.	我们在支持国家足球队时的热情
The passion with which we've been singing the national anthem since we were kids.	从儿时起我们唱国歌时就保含热情
A mother is the most sacred thing in life.	母亲在人一生中出在最神圣地位
Where is the soldier in each son?	那么每个子民心中的战士在哪里？
We're facing a very powerful opponent.	我们面对的是极其强大的敌人
Anyone can kill me, or you, or you.	谁都可以杀我杀你，或者你
So juggling gravity -- up, down.	然后耍弄重力——上，下。
OK? Change the rhythm, so it's even.	可以吧？改变节奏让他变得有规律。
So, you've got to go after the space down there.	所以你必须在空间上有所追求。
But that's the closest approximation I can have to it.	这是我能做得最接近的一个比喻
Well, that's what juggling is about, right?	恩，这就是所谓的杂耍，你们说呢
And you could play with the rhythm.	并且你可以跟着节奏一起玩
You're not getting off that easy. All right?	笑声还是没那么容易明白吧，好吧
OK, you can do that? Yeah? OK.	好了，现在你们能做到了。。很好
Now, let's actually learn something.	现在让我们真正得学点东西吧
Hands out in front of you. Palms up, together.	把手拿出来放在身前，并且摊开
Index finger, middle finger, ring, little.	食指，中指，无名指，小指
Finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger.	手指，手指，手指…………
Finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger.	手指，手指，手指…………
Finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. OK.	手指，手指，手指…………
So what I want you to do is -- fingers.	我要你们做的就是动动手指
Finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. Green.	手指，手指，手指…………绿色球
Finger, finger, finger, finger. Yellow.	手指，手指，手指…………黄色球
It's a moment that you can't make sense of.	这是一个你觉得很有挫败感的瞬间。
It's just a moment. That's all it is, a moment. OK?	这仅仅是某一瞬间，仅仅如此
So, a moment, how would you define a moment?	一个瞬间，你们怎么定义一个瞬间呢
All right, I'm going to get on my knees and do it.	那么，我将跪下，然后开始
The only other thing is, it was a real shock.	笑声另外唯一令我震惊的事是
So, there's a rhythm to it.	所以对于平衡来说有一个节奏。
You can go with the "Sticks One" music.	笑声也可以用后的这个棍子，音乐
This is exploring geometry and the rhythm of shape.	这是探索几何空间和空间的节奏的
Circles split in half and rotated, and mythology.	圆圈分成两半并且旋转，然后
And that's good. I like not to know for as long as possible.	这样好。我喜欢尽可能久的不知道。
And it's going to change as I go through it.	它即将随着我的参与而改变。
But I really like it, it feels right.	不过我真的喜欢，我感觉对的。
To work with the positive and negative in a different way.	用不同的方式主动地和被动地玩。
So, we really will continue to focus on products.	所以，我们肯定会继续关注产品。
And it's a much better way to see.	这种方式看起来要好得多。
The next video is not done by us.	下面一个视频不是我们做的。
We'll see what happens.	似乎进展得不错，让我们拭目以待。
But it was intended to be quite quiet.	但水榭的设计却要求非常安静。
He's made 30,000 new jobs.	他提供了30000个工作机会，
And nobody really knows what it is or why it's there.	也没有人知道它是什么，为何存在。
That's what he thought he was there for.	他认为这就是耶稣的使命。
The more light there is, the less you can see.	光线越强，你能看到的反而越少。
It's much easier if it's not really there.	所以干脆不存在，这样就省事多了。
The question is, who, then, are we?	那么问题就是，我们是谁？
Didn't catch on, unfortunately.	很遗憾，这个词没有流行起来。
They don't. Nobody knows what it is.	他们不懂。没人知道是怎么回事。
Radio waves. There's another thing.	还有一个东西，无线电波。
And he said, "Well, I've no idea.	他说，"其实，我也不知道。
So many books actually have been written over the years.	人们在漫长岁月中写了很多书
They have digitized millions of books.	他们已经将几百万本书进行了数字化
Since time immemorial, there have been authors.	从古时候开始人们就开始写作了
Now we've got the data, plus we have metadata.	现在我们不但有了数据还有元数据
Of course what we did when faced with such outrageous hyperbole ...	当然啦面对如此令人崩溃的结果
We're going to try science."	我们要用科学来解决问题。"
It's four words; we call that a four-gram.	它有四个单词我们称它为四字格
So now what I'm just going to show you is raw data.	现在我给你们看一个原始数据
Suddenly, in the mid-40s, there started to be a buzz.	到了四十年代中期突然间关注度飞升
We are losing interest in the past more rapidly.	我们对过去的遗忘不断加快
JM: Now a little piece of career advice.	好现在给大家一些发展事业的建议
And this looks like the normal trajectory of a famous person.	他的名声起落看似乎没有什么异常
And we compare that to the fame that we observe.	我们把观察到的知名度进行对比
People talked about it twice less as it should have been.	人们对它的关注较预期要少了两倍
But much more importantly, the distribution is much wider.	更重要的是这个分布的跨度更宽
This picture is the hallmark of censorship in the book record.	这幅图反映了书籍记录中的审查情况
The great thing about culturomics is that everyone can do it.	文化组学的优点是人人都会用它
We have to make this available for people."	我们得让所有人都用上它。"
But it turns out in the 18th century, people didn't really care about that at all.	但是在18世纪人们对此并不在乎
They didn't want to be their best, they wanted to be their beft.	他们不想做到最好而是"beft"
This person was interested in the history of frustration.	这个用户对人们烦躁的历史很感兴趣
If you stub your toe, that's a one A "argh."	如果你的脚趾被碰了你会说"啊"
We think that might have something to do with Reagan.	我们猜这可能跟里根总统有关
It's a sizable chunk of human culture.	这是人类文明相当大的一部分
We use some pretty cool techniques to do this.	我们用一些很酷的技术完成这个过程
Differencing is another technique we use.	区分是我们用的另外一个技术
Most people are entirely unconscious of these filters.	大多数人都完全没有察觉这些过滤器
But it's a great intention to have in a relationship.	但这是这种关系下的一个很好的意愿
In this scenario, nobody's listening to anybody.	这种情况下，没有人会倾听其他人
This is a serious problem that we're losing our listening.	丧失倾听的能力是个很严重的问题
How many birds am I hearing?	我可以听到多少种鸟叫声？
Where are they? Where are those ripples?	它们从哪里发出？传向哪里？
Do you remember, I gave you those filters at the beginning.	还记得吗，我开始的时候提到过的
That's too much to ask from most people.	当然这对大多数人来说要求太高了
Thank you for listening to me today.	谢谢大家今天倾听我的演讲
People would yell at me from their passing cars.	开车路过的人从车里对我大喊。
And I'd be, like, "This is my job."	我的反应是"这就是我的工作。"
This is a library in Auckland.	这是奥克兰的一家图书馆。
Is this how stupid people die?	愚蠢的人是不是就是这样死的？
And meanwhile, my band is becoming bigger and bigger.	同时，我的乐队发展得越来越好。
We signed with a major label.	我们和一家主流厂牌签约。
And this starts happening all the time.	这样的事情现在常常发生。
And you can see how many people it is.	可以看出有多少人参与了募款。
And a lot of artists have a problem with this.	很多艺术家都不愿这样做。
Asking makes you vulnerable.	请求帮助可能会让你很脆弱。
Should I? Show me.	我应该这样做吗？用行动告诉我。
So there has been a lot of change.	所以这个世界有太多的变化
I'm going to print them and send them back to you.	我会打印出来然后再发回给你
One hundred thousand posters have been printed this year.	今年已经打印了十万张海报了
Those are the kind of posters, let me show you.	这里有些海报，我给你们看下
And we keep sending more every day.	而且我们每天都在不断增加发送量
They used Inside Out as a platform for protest.	他们借"颠覆计划"作为抗议的平台
And I want to thank her today.	今天我想借此对她表示感谢
He pasted up portraits all over his reservation.	他在这个保留区贴满了海报
Twenty percent of the posters we are receiving comes from schools.	我们收到的海报20%是来自学校的
There should be even more schools doing this kind of project.	学校应该更多地推广这些项目
Of course we wanted to go back to Israel and Palestine.	我们当然想回到以色列和巴基斯坦
They were all holding their photo as a statement.	他们都举着自己的照片作为宣言
Maybe not in one year. That's the beginning.	也许一年改变不了，它才刚起步
But maybe we should change the question.	但或许我们稍微改一下问题
From what I've seen this year, yes.	从我今年看到的成果，答案是肯定的
Let's turn the world inside out together.	让我们一起"颠覆"这个世界吧
Today is, I think, the 50th anniversary of the discovery of DNA.	今天应该是发现DNA的50周年
And they said, oh, you don't need to do that.	而他们说，呃，你不需要这样做
And I said, I'll go in from the biological side.	这次我尝试去学习生物研究方面
That's not something you do. You can't get funded for that.	这是不可以的，你不会拿到研究经费
But I'm doing it now, and I'm going to tell you about it.	但我终于做到了，而我现在告诉你们
We're curious, and we just go out and get knowledge, you know?	我们好奇，而我们渴求知识
Normal science is a nice balance between theory and experimentalists.	一般的科学是平衡于理论和实验的
And it goes back and forth, you know?	反复的验证，你们明白吗？
You can't imagine how much detail we know about brains.	你们很难想象我们已经有多少数据
And it's a real shame. Now why has this come about?	这是很可惜的，为什么会这样呢？
What good is more going to do?	那就算有更多的数据又有何用？
I even think Chris said something like this yesterday.	我想Chris昨天也说过类似的话
You're more complicated than your brain. You've got a brain.	你们都比大脑复杂，你们都有大脑
It's not as complex as it looks. That's not the issue.	它不像想象中复杂，那不是问题
You know, it sounds good, but why? I mean, what's the point?	听起来挺好，但有什么用？
So, you know, I don't think there's anything to that.	所以，我不见得大脑有什么分别的
They all have a lot in common with brain science.	它们跟大脑理论有很多共同点
But it got more manageable once they had a theory.	但有理论后就变的容易处理了
The best minds were stumped -- really, really smart people.	那时候众多很聪明的学者都被困惑
It was an intuitive, strong-held belief that was wrong.	第二，有很根深蒂固但错的想法
This is lunacy. We all know the Earth isn't moving.	疯了吧，我们都知道地球不在动
Do you feel like you're moving a thousand miles an hour?	你感觉到我们在以千多英里移动吗？
So it was intuitive and obvious. Now what about evolution?	这是显而易见的，我们再看看进化论
They say, well, we have a thing in a box, and we have its inputs and its outputs.	我们有一箱子，我们有输入和输出
Reality though, I call it real intelligence.	实际上，我称这为真正智慧，
Real intelligence is built on something else.	真正智慧是建筑于其它层面上的
And that somehow, prediction leads to intelligent behavior.	推测导致有理性有智慧的行为
And the alligator has some very sophisticated senses.	鳄鱼有很复杂强大的感官系统，
But it has all this complex behavior already.	虽然它已拥有很复杂的行为，
No, really, that's what it is. It's about the size of a table napkin.	是真的！它大概是一张台布的大小
It's all those things, and all those gut reactions you have.	它负责所有直觉，本能反应，
And on top of it, we have this memory system called the neocortex.	在它上面，是我们说的新大脑皮层，
This is the most important slide of my talk, so I'll dwell on it a little bit.	这是我演说里最重要的一点，
And so, all the time you say, oh, I can predict the things.	所以，你们不断的在猜测食物，
And these things happen all the time. You're making these predictions.	这情况经常发生，你在不断的猜测，
Door, door, door, you know, color, you know what I'm saying.	所以样式的门，不同颜色的，
First of all, we have to have the right framework.	第一，我们需要合适的框架，
Now biologists generally are not good theoreticians.	生物学者一般不是好的理论学者，
Then they have to learn the anatomy, and they've got to learn the physiology.	然后他们要学解剖学和生理学，
And that's what we're doing at the Redwood Neuroscience Institute.	而我们的研究院正是研究这方面的，
First of all, it's going to be a theory about memory.	首先，它会是一个关于记忆的理论，
It's also memory of sequences.	它也会是很多组有关联记忆，
You cannot learn or recall anything outside of a sequence.	你不会学习或回忆没有关联的东西，
First of all, it's going to be built up, we're going to build the stuff out of silicon.	首先，我们会用硅来制造，
We can also do intelligent security systems.	我们也可以制造智能保安系统
But ultimately, the world's the limit here.	但最终，会发展到各方面，
I don't know how this is going to turn out.	我也不知道会发展成怎样，
I know there have been many challenges made to people.	我也知道大家已经有很多挑战。
This is called human security.	这被称为人类的基本安全。
In global terms, it's a little bit of money.	在全球范围看，这数目是极少的钱。
It is saving the tigers.	和平也意味拯救濒危物种老虎。
It is stopping the tar sands.	它也指停止焦油砂的开采。
It is using our money for all of those things.	我们要合理地在这所有方面花钱。
I said, "Yes, Your Holiness.	我说，"是吗，教皇陛下？
Your robe gives it away."	你的教袍可不是这么说哦。"
I don't follow that, but that's cool."	我没有冥思祈祷过，但那很酷。"
And he says, "But I have become skeptical.	他说，"但我开始质疑了。
But I talked to her for a range of issues.	但我和她谈到一系列问题时，
Here's another woman hero of mine.	这是另一位我眼中的女英雄。
You ask her where she lives -- where does she live in exile?	当你问她，她流放期间都住在哪？
Working for peace is very creative.	致力于和平工作需要特别有创意。
It's hard work every day.	每一天都是艰苦卓绝的工作。
Working together is what changes our world.	共同努力才会改变我们的世界。
I'll tell you the quick story.	我要给大家将个简单的故事。
It was Mairead's sister.	这位母亲是梅雷亚德的姐姐。
They could maybe volunteer that much.	他们能志愿的时间只有这么多。
That was a great day for my mother.	那对我妈来说是非常棒的一天。
I want to see this! Give me a chair!	我想看这个。给我一把椅子。
To my grandmother, the washing machine was a miracle.	对我奶奶而言，洗衣机就是个奇迹。
I can't even name them all.	我甚至都叫不上它们的名字来。
And the remaining five billion, how do they wash?	剩下的50亿人，他们怎样洗衣服？
They want the washing machine in exactly the same way.	她们完全想要同样的洗衣机。
What will happen is economic growth.	接下来发生的是经济增长。
"Wopp!" they will say.	"Wopp！好极了"他们会说。
I told you. They'll go there.	我告诉你。他们会到这组。
And they will double their energy use.	他们会翻倍他们的能源使用量。
And we hope that the poor people will get into the electric light.	我希望穷苦的人们会用上电灯泡。
But the total energy consumption will increase to 22 units.	但总能源消耗会增加到22个单位。
They must change behavior in some way.	他们必须在某种意义上要改变习惯。
Here we can get more green energy all over.	这儿我们到处能得到更多绿色能源。
This is what we hope may happen.	这也是我们所希望发生的事。
It's a real challenge in the future.	在未来这是个实实在在的挑战。
And what's the magic with them?	这洗衣机的神奇功能是什么呢？
She said, "Now Hans, we have loaded the laundry.	她说，"现在汉斯，我们要洗衣服；
And now we can go to the library."	现在我们可以去图书馆了。"
You get books out of the machines, children's books.	从那里你得到了一些书，儿童书。
And mother got time to read for me.	我妈妈有时间就给我读书。
And we really, we really loved this machine.	我们的确真地爱上了这个洗衣机。
And my story is about these tradeoffs.	而我的故事就是关于这些代价的。
Do you see the subject?	大家看到被研究对象了吗？
But a few years back, we did something else.	但是几年前，我们做了些其他事情。
And the answer is, yes, we can, and we did.	答案是，可以的，我们也做到了。
And should we care?	而我们该不该关心这个问题？
And in principle, that's a very good thing.	理论上，这是非常好的事情。
It's necessary, but it is not sufficient.	这是必要的，但是却不完善。
We can browse the Internet anonymously.	我们可以匿名的浏览网页。
However, they also lack knowledge and self-awareness.	但是，他们没有知识和自觉性。
The price to pay, however, is leaving the garden.	但是代价却是，离开伊甸园。
But what they do have is incredible social skills.	但他们的社交能力真的很好。
But they have those social skills.	但他们就是有这种社交手腕。
And the fact is, people learn from people they love.	事实是，人们从所爱的人身上学习
So at the moment of conception, they're doing little butt exercises.	在怀孕期间，她们摆摆屁股练习操。
The brain is the record of the feelings of a life.	大脑纪录我们一生经历过的感受
And the third insight is that we're not primarily self-contained individuals.	第三是我们不是独立的个体。
We believe that reason is the highest of the faculties.	我们相信理性是最重要的。
They are what we call avoidantly attached.	我们称他们为回避型亲密关系。
They have trouble relating to other people.	他们往往难以与他人建立关系。
And so this is one skill of how to hoover up knowledge, one from another.	这是一种向别人吸收知识的技术。
They have epistemological modesty.	他们在知识论上保持谦虚。
And these traits are often unrelated and uncorrelated with IQ.	而这些特性和IQ没有直接关系。
Then you could talk about a trait like blending.	然后我们可以讨论"混合"的特性。
That is what the unconscious mind hungers for.	这些就是潜意识渴望的经历。
But that's not the only purpose that human beings are sold for.	但这还不是人口拐卖的全部
They are sold in the name of organ trade.	或者是在器官买卖的名义下进行的
I work on the issue of commercial sexual exploitation.	我的工作就是反对商业性剥削
You have even the middle class sometimes getting trafficked.	甚至也有中产家庭的孩子被拐卖的
These people are deceived, forced.	这些孩子被诱骗，是被迫的
Some pay the price for it.	有些还为此付出了较大的金钱代价
They are voiceless, [unclear], nameless people.	她们是无声的无名的受害者
We think it is easy money.	我们认为那是很容易得来的钱
And therefore she starts normalizing this exploitation.	慢慢的她也把这样的性剥削当成常态
She believes, "Yes, this is it, this is what my destiny is about."	她会想，这就是我命中注定的
And it's abnormal to live in a shelter.	而有固定的房间住则是不正常的
It's in that context that I work.	我正是在这样的背景下工作的
And for me, I was my greatest experience.	我知道我自身的经历就是最好的经验
She earns around 12,000 rupees.	每个月可以赚得12000印度卢布
Why welding and why not computers?	为什么要成为焊接师而不是程序员？
What has been my challenge?	而我面临的挑战又有哪些呢？
My biggest challenge is society.	我最大的挑战反而是社会本身
It's you and me.	我最大的挑战来自于你和我
They need, much more than anything else, your acceptance.	她们首先需要的是你们的接纳
Can you speak to at least two persons about this story?	你能否跟至少两个人说这个故事？
They died of AIDS last year.	她们去年就因为感染艾滋病而死亡
Now, have any of y'all ever looked up this word?	好，你们中有谁查过这个单词？
And those bits are words.	我们这里说的小块就是指单词了。
Right? Nobody hugs their dictionaries.	对吧？没有人会拥抱他们的字典。
But the thing is, I don't want to be a traffic cop.	问题是，我不想当交通警察。
Well, first of all, I blame the Queen because it's funny.	首先，责怪女王比较有趣，
Computers! What about computers?	计算机！计算机是新东西吧？
The thing about computers is, I love computers.	不要误会，我喜欢计算机，
They don't change the end result.	计算机没有改变最终结果。
It's steampunk. What we have is an electric velocipede.	没什么，就是一台电动的脚踏车。
Very useful word. So, look at that.	非常有用的词。看看这里，
Does everyone know the ham butt problem?	有人知道火腿屁股的问题吗？
Why are you blaming the ham for being too big for the pan?	为什么要责怪火腿比锅大呢？
So, you can't get a smaller ham.	你不能找到小一点的火腿，
Some of my best friends are books.	我的一些最好的朋友就是书。
No. There will still be paper dictionaries.	不是。纸质的字典还是会存在的。
Lexicography is really more about material science.	字典编纂学是研究物质的科学。
They're just the right tools for the job.	它们只是合适的工具而已。"
Being in the dictionary is an artificial distinction.	词放在字典里只是人工的区分，
If you love a word, it becomes real.	如果你爱一个词，它才会变真实。
That's 500,000 more words. So that's a lot.	超过五十万词，那是很大的词汇量。
There's a lot going on there.	那里正在创造出很多的新词。
Do you know what that says to me?	你知道这对我来说意味着什么？
That says to me, it was Friday afternoon and somebody wanted to go down the pub.	那就是说周五下午某人想去酒吧。
So, we have all these words, and we really need help!	有那么多词，我们真的很需要帮助！
And we don't even know the shape of the language.	我们连整个语言的轮廓也不知道。
We don't even see that there's a gap on the map.	我们连地图里有个空白也不知道。
So again, lexicography is not rocket science.	再强调，字典编纂不是开发火箭。
It can't be that hard to find some words!	发现词语不可能有那么难！
He's a director of an electroplating company.	他是一家电镀公司的总监。
Because I'm going to the Internet, which is where everybody goes.	我要去互联网，就像大伙那样。
You know, it's pretty to look at for a while, but then it dies.	看一会还可以，不久就蔫了。
We can put in all the meanings.	还可以把所有的单词解释都放里边。
So, I'm just going to grab a chair here.	所以，我现在抓把椅子坐下。
And all this had come from nothing.	而这一切如今都已经成了泡影。
The theme next year is re-birth.	明年大会的主题是"再生"。
It's connected; it all hooks into each other.	它们连在一起，环环相扣。
Are we the victims of a mass delusion?	我们是不是妄想的受害者？
Every mental organ addressed. It really is.	思想的每个器官都受到刺激。
So, I will. Here's the vision for TED.	好吧，下面我谈谈我的TED愿景。
They were on their way home, and they were pulled over by a police officer.	回来的时候，他们被警车拦下了。
And Titus was convicted.	提塔斯就这样被宣告有罪。
Titus was so bitter.	提塔斯的生活变得更加苦涩。
She couldn't put up with his persistent anger.	她无法忍受他一直以来的愤怒。
Our memories are constructive.	我们的记忆具有可塑性的，
Well out there in the real world, misinformation is everywhere.	大千世界，错误的信息无处不在。
And should we ever ban its use?	我们应该不应该禁止它的使用？
I know what I would choose for a kid of mine.	我知道我会怎么给我的孩子选，
And I appreciate that. I feel that way too.	我明白这些。我也是那么认为的。
Ironically, hardly anyone noticed at the time.	很讽刺的是，几乎没有人注意到它。
The Holy Grail, of course, is the GPS dot.	圣杯，当然了，就是那个GPS点。
Now, of course, there is a flip side to the GPS dot.	当然，GPS点也有不好的一面。
So you might ask at this point why she's calling you.	你可能会问，那她给你打电话干吗。
Well, so did I.	好吧，我也问了同样的问题。
"I already have," she told me.	"我已经找过了。"她告诉我。
"Well then, you'd better go to the police," I said.	"那么，你最好去见警察。"我说。
"I already have," she replied.	"我已经见过了。"她回答。
"Okay, what about the FBI?"	"好吧，联邦调查局怎么样？"
"I've talked to them too, and same story."	"我也问过他们了，同样的故事。"
Well, because it's not a bubble at all.	因为它根本不是一个气泡。
We're almost blindly reliant on it.	我们几乎是盲目地依赖它。
Some call it "the invisible utility."	一些人管它叫"看不见的工具"。
The fake signals now completely control this GPS receiver.	假信号完全控制了GPS接收器。
They have no encryption. They have no authentication.	它们没有加密。它们没有验证。
I remember vividly the week it all came together.	我清晰地记得我们成功的那一周。
Imagine, for example, you're being tracked.	想象一下，假设你被攻击了。
You'll never lose track of your things again.	我们再也不会找不到东西了。
The GPS dot will fundamentally reorder your life.	GPS点基本上记录着我们的生活。
I'd like to begin with my very first object, which I call "The Uncle Phone."	第一个作品叫做"叔叔电话"
He would hold on to the receiver and expect me to dial a number for him.	他拿着听筒然后让我给他拨号码
It's so long that it requires two people to use it.	这个长到要两个人才能使用的电话
And at the slightest sound, they hide back again.	稍稍有动静，他们就立马藏进去
And we had over 500 of these little pygmies hiding behind them.	板子后藏着五百多个这些小俾格米人
So we worked very hard to make them as lifelike as possible.	我们为了令其栩栩如生费了很大劲
This is a video installation called "The Missing Person."	这是一个叫"失踪者"的摄影装置
How would it be possible to experience a sense of invisibility?	如果能体验隐身会是什么样的？
So I'm just going to show you a very early prototype.	这儿看一下早期的视频样板
So this is a work called "The Sun Shadow."	这个作品叫做"太阳的影子"
But he doesn't need to, because it manages to lift itself up on its own.	但是没有必要装置能自己站起来
And it's at the scale of the night sky.	背景设置有如真正夜空般大小
Five out of six of us live in the developing world.	有5/6的人口居住在发展中国家
Then what happens to the waste?	那么怎么处理这些废料呢？
I love being around these big wind generators.	我希望能够多一些巨大的风能发电机
In places like Denmark and Germany, they've maxed out on wind already.	在德国和丹麦他们主要靠风能发电
It's okay on frapped-out agricultural land.	在闲置的农业用地上也许没问题
Solar's wonderful on rooftops.	放在屋顶上，太阳能非常好，
We haven't even started the American stockpile.	而我们还没开始动用美国的储备。
Here's one the Russians are already building that floats on a barge.	这个是俄罗斯在游艇上安装的。
And here's the future.	还是选择一个核能的未来。
And it also enhances nuclear weapons proliferation.	况且，核能还会增强核武器的扩散。
Nuclear -- there are two bars here.	核能——这里有两个数据。
And this doesn't even account for the footprint on the ground.	而这还不算地面覆盖面积。
Iran is doing that right now.	而伊朗正在进行这种行为。
So, do we need this?	所以，我们真的需要这样么？
That's the footprint that is always being confused.	而这一点总是让人摸不着头脑。
People confuse footprint with spacing.	人们总认为占地面积就是所需空间，
Now if we look at nuclear -- With nuclear, what do we have?	反观核能我们又需要什么呢？
And you have the uranium mining that you have to deal with.	你还需要铀矿这是必须考虑的
If you're against, put up one.	如果你反对世界需要核能，举单手。
And I want two of each for the mics.	我希望一边出两个人一会互辩。
So the other thing is, we don't need nuclear energy.	另一个我们不需要核能的原因是
There's plenty of solar and wind.	我们有大量的风能和太阳能。
The propaganda from the industry has been very, very strong.	工业的宣传一直非常，非常有力。
I've got a hydro conversion at a watermill that I own.	在我拥有的水车上装有水力转换器。
However, there's a basic arithmetic problem here.	但是这里有一个基本的算术问题。
And, ultimately, the arithmetic problem isn't going to go away.	总而言之，这个算术问题不会消失，
And just now in England they had a cold spell.	但现在在英国他们有一个春寒期
All of the wind in the entire country shut down for a week.	整个国家的风力整整停了一个星期
None of those things were stirring.	没有哪个风力发电机还在转动
I used to worry about the 10,000 year factor.	我曾经担心10000年后怎么办，
has wind at fast enough speeds to be cost-competitive.	足够快速的风力是很有成本竞争力的
So if you were in Palm Springs ...	掌声如果你在PalmSpring
Shameless. Shameless. Shameless.	笑声掌声丢人，丢人，丢人
All those in favor, raise your hands.	支持正方的观众，请举手。
And all those against.	吃惊得叫声支持反方的，举手
But this time, the Chinese didn't buy it.	但这一次，中国敬谢不敏。
Needless to say, I ate all my grandmother's portions.	不用说，我把外婆的份额全给吃了
Now, I'm a venture capitalist. I make bets.	我是搞风险投资的，长于预测。
In the next 10 years, China will surpass the U.S.	未来十年,中国将超过美国
Let us draw to a close this era of meta-narratives.	让我们为元叙事的时代画个句号吧。
Are we brave enough to welcome it?	我们有没有勇气拥抱它呢？
Do you know who their biggest client is?	你知道他们最大的客户是谁吗?
Are you happy with the garbage collection?	你们对收垃圾等市政服务满意吗?
Are you happy with the general direction of the country?	你们对国家的大方向满意吗?
But fear, curiosity and greed have driven us.	恐惧，好奇心以及欲望驱使着我们。
And Apollo was one of the greatest motivators ever.	阿波罗计划是最大的激发因素之一。
And we knew nothing about going to space.	我们对飞上太空毫无经验。
They didn't know what couldn't be done.	他们不知道什么是不可能的。
They had to make up everything.	他们不得不凭空构想出所有东西-
And that, my friend, is amazing motivation.	朋友们，那真不可思议的动力！
We shouldn't be happy in standing for that.	我们不应该容忍这样的现状。
You know, one -- we have a very unique period in time today.	今天我们处在一个非常独特的时代。
It's all government research dollars, and very few of those.	用的全部都是政府的研究经费。
They come with their own money. They're easy to make.	他们自己出钱，这钱也很好赚。
I said, "Well, that's great."	我说，恩，那真是太棒了！
That's our value proposition in a prize.	这就是大奖赛中的价值部分。
We're going after an orbital prize.	我们在着手设立一个轨道竞赛。
There's something that I'd like you to see.	我想先让大家看一段视频。
The entire accident is caught on camera.	整个事故被监控录像录了下来。
Raise your hands if that thought occurred to you.	有过这样想法的听众麻烦举一下手。
The heart, of course, you felt.	当然，善心是可以看得到的。
But if I'm not, what can I do?	可我不是，我能帮得上什么呢？
Here's one young man who's taken this advice.	以下这名年青人采用了他的建议。
But he's gone into finance in New York.	可他却在纽约从事金融方面的工作。
So let's talk about effectiveness.	所以，让我们来看看效率问题。
So some people think that would be a good thing to give to.	所以，有人觉得很值得为些捐款。
Why was he recovering from surgery?	为什么说他正在手术恢复中呢？
If we could free ourselves from our education?	如果我们能挣脱教育的束缚呢？
We can abstract them and to create something that is new.	我们能取其精华然后创造出新的东西
We're free to choose where we make the fold.	我们可以随意选择在哪对折
And by doing so, we can differentiate the surfaces.	这样做后，我们就能制作不同的面
A simple volume, the cube.	一个简单的立方体--正方形
So, for instance, we can plot the length of the edges.	所以，我们可以标绘出边缘的长度
White surfaces have long edges, black ones have short ones.	白色表面的边缘较长，黑色的则较短
So let's bring this process to architecture.	所以我们不妨将这个过程引入建筑学
The closer one gets, the more new features one discovers.	你越靠近，就会越发现新特点
So this leads to a new role for the architect.	这也就赋予了建筑师新的角色
These are images from the Gwangju Biennale.	这些是光州艺术展上的图片
Each column is effectively a hybrid of two columns.	每根柱子都是两根柱子的混合体
How many people here are over the age of 48?	这里有多少人已经超过48岁了？
But there's still a lot of work to do.	但是我们仍有很多事情可以做。
Well, wouldn't it be nice if it was that easy?	嗯，如果真的这么简单就好了。
Well, what does this really look like?	好，真实情况看起来是怎样？
You weed down through various steps that cause many of these to fail.	需要很多步的过滤可能很多会失败
And that's the main theme of what I want to say to you this morning.	这就是今天早上我想说的主题，
How can we make it more successful?	怎样让这个过程的结果更成功？
How does that play out in terms of application to a disease?	那么如果应用到疾病治疗中呢？
This is a drug that was developed for cancer.	这种药物本来是研发来对抗癌症的。
It was developed for cancer. It was AZT.	它是为癌症研发的，叫做AZT。
Here you see a picture of a lung on a chip.	这是一张在片型的肺部细胞的照片
It has an air channel. It has a blood channel.	它有空气通道和有血液通道
We are in a remarkable moment here.	我们现在正经历一个非凡的时刻。
This is research that's high-risk, sometimes high-cost.	这是高风险，高花费的研究。
It matters for now. It matters as soon as possible.	现在就很重要，简直迫在眉睫
We know that modernization is happening.	我们知道现代化正在成为一个趋势
It's important for us to grow organically.	井而有序的发展是很重要的
You know, art and culture is big business.	艺术和文化潜藏着巨大的商机
Our mission is of cultural integration and independence.	我们的任务是文化融合与文化独立
We don't want to have what there is in the West.	我们不想重复西方国家所拥有的
For me it was a new discovery.	对我来说，这是一个新发现
In a similar way, we have created the Doha Film Institute.	同样的我们创建了多哈电影学院
And this is one of our filmmakers' products.	这是其中一位制片人的作品
Culture's a very important tool to bring people together.	文化是团结人们的非常重要的方法
This is a very interesting journey.	这将是一场非常有趣的旅程
My work is -- it's a reflection of myself.	我的作品——它是我内心的反映。
We all seem to think that, you know, if we look down on the ground, there's nothing there.	我们似乎都认为地上什么都没有。
This all started when I was age five.	这一切开始于我五岁的时候。
So I told her.	虽然我想告诉她这些情况。
So I'm sitting there thinking.	于是我就坐在那儿开始思考。
And how I set about that, I got some splinters of wood.	怎么做的呢？我找了一些碎木块，
And then I sat down and all the ants came along.	然后就坐下来看着蚂蚁们纷至沓来。
And from there I was watching this little world.	由此我开始关注这个微型世界。
My mother told me to take it smaller.	她说我还可以做得更小些。
Now I shall show you something here.	我现在想给你们看点东西。
As you can see, that's a pinhead.	正如你们所见，那是大头针的顶端。
And then I actually slow down my whole nervous system.	然后，我开始平心静气，放慢呼吸，
And as I was doing it, what happened?	就在我这么做的时候，出了点状况。
The instrument that I used turned into a catapult.	我用的工具成了一个弹弓，
So to cut the story short, I decided that I had to go back and do it.	还是长话短说吧。我决定重新开始。
Darren dust mite and his family moved in.	尘螨达伦一家住进了我的小屋。
And there you are.	就是你们看到的这个样子。
I used the needle which has got a slight blade on the end.	还是用那种尖端有刀刃的针。
Can anybody see the blade on the end of that needle?	有人能看见这根针头上的刀刃吗？
And they go "Meow! Ow!"	就像这样，"呜嘤——呜嘤——"
As you can see, there's an aphid fly there.	你们可以看到，那边有一只蚜蝇。
And there was a lady standing by the bus stop.	公交车站旁站着一位女士，
And she saw me walking around like this.	她看见我这样在屋里转来转去。
And I cut off a little flake of gold.	我从上面切下一小片金子，
There's no way a man can do that.	人手不可能做出这样的雕塑，
This one, I would say, was a serious challenge.	我得说，这个的确是个挑战。
That one is, more or less, the same type of process.	制作的过程和前面的多少有些类似。
I wanted to create movement in the eye of a needle.	我起初想在针眼里创造一种动感。
And made a needle look like the Hulk's broken it.	让它看上去像是被绿巨人撑开的。
So most of my work, I don't use glue.	我的绝大部分作品都没有使用胶水。
And his mouth must be probably about three microns.	他的嘴巴大概有三微米左右。
That ship there, that's made from 24-karat gold.	那艘船是由24K黄金雕刻而成。
And I normally rig it with the web of a money spider.	通常我会用皿蛛的网丝做帆索，
But I had to rig it with strands of glue.	但这次我不得不用胶水拉出的丝，
And that was done with a particle from my shirt.	是从我衬衣上取下的一点点材料。
The voice asks, "Who is there?"	那个声音问到，"谁在那儿？"
And Rumi's stories are metaphors for the spiritual path.	鲁米的故事是对精神道路的比喻。
This is all you. And this is all us.	这是全部的你。这是全部的我们。
And us, and I, and us are all part of you.	我们，我，我们都是你的一部分。
The language differs, but the objective is the same.	语言不同，但所指事物是相同的。
I was, for all the world, the "walking guy."	在世人眼中，我就是那个徒步旅行家
And one afternoon, I got a call from my doctor.	一天下午，我接到了医生的电话
"The tumor in your leg is not consistent with a benign tumor."	"你腿里长的肿瘤是恶性的。"
Will you help be their dad?"	你能帮忙做她们的爸爸吗？"
She's a very upbeat, naturally excited person.	她是个非常乐观活泼开朗的人
My wife, as I said, she grew up outside of Boston.	我妻子在波士顿的郊外长大
In Arkansas they don't even ask."	而在阿肯萨州，人们连问都不问。"
You don't need the 30-day waiting period.	这就免了那三十天的等待期。
Because you don't need the get-to-know-you session at that point.	因为你可以跳过相互认识的阶段。
We were trying to fill the dad-space in the girls' lives.	我们要尽力让父爱充满女儿的生活。
And then third, sort of a dad for every side.	第三，从不同方面做为爸爸。
So what happened was I wrote a letter to each of these men.	接着，我给每一个都写了一封信。
"Will you help be their dad?"	"你们帮忙做她们的爸爸吗？"
Six hundred Americans a year get an osteosarcoma.	美国每年有六百人身上长有骨肉瘤。
Eighty-five percent are under 21.	百分之八十五的患者是未成年人。
And then he took out a third of my quadriceps muscle.	最后他切除了我三分之一的四头肌。
They were actually putting blood inside my body.	他们当时一直在给我输血。
People were incredibly drawn.	人们都神奇地被吸引来了。
Cancer, I found, is a passport to intimacy.	癌症，让我与人更加亲近。
Now David is my literary agent.	现在David是我的文稿代理人。
But whatever you do, don't succumb to it.	不论你做什么，不要屈服，
And I just love this ode to slow moving.	我很欣赏这种放慢步调的情操。
And it's become my own motto for my girls.	这成了我给女儿们树立的人生信条。
My lost year was my jubilee year.	我失落的那一年是我的禧年。
And we encourage anybody to join this effort.	我们鼓励任何人贡献一份力量。
Music must be the thing for Derek.	音乐应该是最适合德里克的
Now, not being able to see meant, of course, that you taught yourself.	而眼睛看不见意味着你必须自学
You can see how -- you get a sense of playing with Derek.	你可以理解和德里克弹琴的感觉
So just be thoughtful before you suggest something too outlandish.	所以在选太偏的曲子前可要三思
But seriously, would anyone like to choose a piece?	但言归正传，有人想选一首曲子吗？
So this is one of Derek's heroes.	这是德里克崇拜的对象之一
It looks terrible. Is it a little hot plate?	它看起来很糟糕。是一块小电热板？
Here is my well-loved iPhone.	这是我非常喜欢的iPhone。
I do so many things on this little device.	这个小手机让我做很多很多事。
Unlike the Theme Building, this is not alien technology.	不像主题大楼，它不是外星科技。
A different way of life, a different being.	而是另一种生活方式，另一种生存。
Because the chimps have a very promiscuous mating society.	因为黑猩猩是混杂交配的，
So here we are, a chimpanzee using a computer.	你看，黑猩猩也可以操作电脑。
The deforestation, the growth of human populations, needing more land.	森林砍伐，人口增加需要更多土地。
And Roots and Shoots is a program for hope.	"根与芽"是一个希望工程。
See the brick walls as all the problems that we've inflicted on this planet.	把砖墙看作我们给地球带来的问题。
Then, you see, it is a message of hope.	这样一来，瞧，这就是希望的讯息。
Every individual has a role to play.	每一个人在此都有自己的角色。
One project to show care and concern for your own human community.	一个项目是关怀自己所属的社区。
And the third kind of project: something for the local environment.	第三类项目，是关心当地环境
It's going to depend which part, say, of America they're in.	还要根据他们住在美国的哪部分。
We want to go and work in a dog shelter.	我们要去犬类收养中心工作，
No violence, no bombs, no guns.	不需要暴力，不要炸弹，不要枪支。
Violence leads to violence, at least in my view.	至少在我看来，暴力只能导致暴力。
How many more minutes? Two, one?	我还有几分钟？两分钟，一分钟？
Are you going to come and drag me off?	你们会冲上了把我拉下去吗？
It's what I'm devoting most of my energy to.	这正是我倾注大部分精力的工作。
And we've talked a lot about that.	对此，我们已经说过了很多。
Secondly, the resilience of nature.	第二，大自然可以自我修复。
We're the ones who can make a difference.	只有我们，才能带来改变。
Really what I'm talking about here is trying to create a kind of artificial life.	我要说的就是创造人造生命
So what are these characteristics that I'm talking about? These are them.	那这些特征都是什么？我们来看
This is how we can start to make a protocell.	这就是我们创造原始细胞的方法
We use this idea called self-assembly.	我们应用的概念是自我集成
What about the other aspects of living systems?	那么生命系统的其他方面呢？
So we came up with this protocell model here that I'm showing.	这是我们的原始细胞的模型
It forms a surface that is, say, chemically active.	它形成一种具有化学活性的表面
It could run a metabolism on it.	可以在其上进行新成代谢活动
So we're on a road towards living systems.	这样我们就越来越接近生命系统
The protocell moves. It encounters the food.	原始细胞运动着碰上了食物
But they have lifelike properties, is the point.	但是重要的是他们具备生命特征
Mice, of course, are the quintessential model organism.	老鼠，当然，是最典型的模式生物。
So it starts by building a better mousetrap, of course.	一开始要弄个不错的捕鼠器，当然
Is anybody here on antidepressants?	这里有人在服用抗抑郁剂么？
Then of course, it goes into the entrapment device.	然后，当然，它们走到诱捕器中。
This is a prescription to improve water quality.	这是一个提高水质的处方。
Here's one of them that we have up now.	这是我们目前所做的烟囱中的一个。
These are just your average urban pigeon.	他们只是平常的城市鸽子。
Displacement is not the way to deal with environmental issues.	转移不是解决环境问题的方法。
And 750 million people in the world today own a car.	现在全球有7亿5千万人拥有汽车
That's just 12 percent of the population.	这个数字仅仅占全球人口的12%
But the fact remains: the fundamental DNA of the automobile has stayed pretty much the same.	但实际上汽车的基本构造功能没变
We wanted something that was really affordable.	我们需要的是人们能够买得起的汽车
It's produced in the fertilizer industry; it's produced in the chemical manufacturing industry.	化肥工业生产氢气化学工业生产氢气
So we're pretty excited about the future of hydrogen.	我们都看好氢气在未来的应用前景
So that's what we're driving to for 2010.	这就是2010年我们要做的工作
We actually think the future's going to be event-driven.	我们相信未来将为事件所驱动
And again, this is a pretty big march to take here.	要实现我们的设想还有很长的路要走
And we want to be the first one to create it, Chris.	但我们要做的是成为先驱者
My dad was a high-ranking gang member who ran the streets.	我老爸是街头黑帮头目之一。
Man, her office was packed.	她的办公室总是人满为患的。
But that doesn't mean that we can't.	但这并不意味着我们做不到。
Some teachers completely wrote me off as a lost cause.	有些老师甚至认定我已经不可救药。
Why would you want to do that?"	"你怎么会想到要当老师呢？"
I need to be in class because I need to graduate."	"我得来上课，因为我一定要毕业"
So we created a new school.	所以，我们创办了一所新学校。
But we had to do it.	但我们必须要做好这件事。
Yeah, what if we get it wrong?	对，如果我们办不好会怎么样呢？
And we did.	后来，我们的确办得很成功。
These were played in the local trolley system.	这些广告在有轨电车系统上播放。
I [did] a master's degree in economics.	拿到了经济学的硕士学位。
I worked after for an investment bank.	后来我在一家投资银行工作。
I saw in Rwanda total brutality.	我在卢旺达见识了全部的残暴行径。
I saw deaths by thousands per day.	一天之内数以千计的人丧生，
It was the moment that my parents became very old.	我的父母这时都已非常年迈，
You say that you were born in paradise.	你说你出生的地方好比伊甸园，
Let's build the paradise again.	我们重新建造一个伊甸园。
We must protect the forest in this sense.	这点来讲我们必须保护森林。
Well, this — — Thank you. Thank you very much.	呃，这个谢谢，非常感谢。
But we create an incredible contradiction.	但我们创造了一个巨大的矛盾。
To build all this, we destroy a lot.	为了建立这些，我们毁弃太多。
Around here, no? The redwood forests are gone.	这里，不是吗？红木林也消失了。
Gone very fast, disappeared.	以非常快的速度，消失不见。
India has no more trees. Spain has no more trees.	印度没有树木。西班牙没有树木。
That is the essence of our life, these forests.	这是我们生命的本质，这些森林。
When you have trees, the root system holds the water.	如果有树木的话，树根会蓄住水分，
And I'll show you the last picture.	现在我要展示最后一张照片。
We are with two million trees in the ground now.	我们现在土地上有200万棵树。
And I believe that we can do it together.	我相信我们可以共同努力做到。
So, I didn't grow up in New York.	是的，我并不在纽约长大。
So the city basically extended to City Hall Park.	所以这座城市基本延伸到市府公园。
This map was made for military reasons.	这幅图的绘制出于军事考虑。
Or the swamp at Gramercy Park, right here.	格拉姆西公园的沼泽在这儿，
We can calculate the aspect.	是的，我们可以计算各方面的数据。
And we might think of these as abandoned.	我们或许会以为它们被遗弃了。
An aspen needs fire and dry soils.	白杨喜光，强阳性和干燥的土壤。
And you can look at what a wet meadow needs.	然后你可以知道湿草地需要什么。
But you can also talk about sunny places.	但是你可以再想想阳光灿烂的地方。
But what are the conditions that make it possible?	但是，在何种情况下才有可能呢？
They are the connections that actually make nature resilient.	这些连线恢复了自然生态活力。
And then we took this data.	然后我们应用了这些资料。
And we tried to use it to visualize Third Avenue.	我们尝试图像化第三大道。
So we would take the landscape and we would build up the topography.	我们取得并绘制地貌地形。
We would lay on top of that the map of the ecological communities.	我们把生态群落放到地图的顶层，
And we can see this in the geography of the city today.	我们也可以在今天的城市中看到它。
So, you know, sustainability, small planet.	我们说可持续发展地球很小
Right? Picture a little Earth, circling around the sun.	想象一个围绕着太阳转的地球
We don't have that. So that's one problem.	我们没有10个地球这就带来了问题
And they may not want to live exactly like us.	但是他们不一定会像我们这样过日子
So what's Worldchanging?	好那什么是"改变世界"呢？
So, I don't know, just stick with me. Right?	大家就跟着我的节拍走好吗
So, first of all, what are we looking for? Bright Green city.	首先我们想要的是什么是绿色的城市
So you have density. You also have growth management.	有了密度以后还需要有增长管理
Nature, city. Nothing changes.	自然城市任何东西都没有改变
You can also start to change what you build.	你也可以改变你建房子的模式
You can start to know where things are.	你可以更清晰的知道东西都在哪里
But, you know, there may even be a simpler approach.	事实上很多时候可以有更简单的做法
We could just re-label things.	比如改变我们对一些事情的叫法
How we build things can change as well.	我们建造东西的方法也能加以改进
We're starting to cover this more and more.	我们关于这方面的报道越来越多了
They live in the emerging megacities of the developing world.	我们大多住在发展中国家的发展区
It's every seven days.	应该是每七天多出一座那样的城市
And this is one of the things that we are looking for everywhere.	而这一点我们在所有地方都看得到
I particularly like the Ganesh in the background, talking on the cell phone.	尤其是后面那个打手机的象头神
So what we have, increasingly, is cell phones just permeating out through society.	我们社会上越来越多的将会是手机
And those things lead to things like this.	它们所带来的正如这张照片所展示的
And those quarter-million people are some of the poorest people in Sao Paolo.	并且他们大多数是圣保罗最贫穷的人
So one of the things that that's leading to is a sort of southern cultural explosion.	由此而触发了南半球的文化爆炸
So it's not, you know, Bollywood isn't just answering Hollywood. Right?	宝莱坞不仅仅是在冲击好莱坞
You know, Brazilian music scene isn't just answering the major labels.	巴西音乐也不是为了要抗衡主流音乐
There's interplay between them. And, you know, you get amazing things.	这是一个双方相互学取长补短的过程
And sort of the big motto of the anti-globalization movement. Right?	这是当年反全球化的口号对不对？
We need to start doing things like Lula, President of Brazil.	我们需要像巴西总统卢拉那样做事情
How many people knew of Lula before today?	有多少人之前是知道卢拉这个名字的
And, you know, we don't hear those stories enough.	但是我们所听得到的这类新闻太少了
You get new tools for people in the developing world.	发展中国家的人们还获得了新的工具
Here's a design for distilling water using sunlight.	这是利用太阳能来净化饮用水
I mean, that's a great design.	我想说这是一个伟大的设计
This is one of my favorite Worldchanging kinds of things ever.	这是我最喜欢的一个改变世界的玩意
New models for pedagogy for the displaced.	对于残障人士的新的教育模式
This is one of my absolute favorite things anywhere.	这是我看过的最令我喜欢的东西
Yeah, so seeds that could save your life. You know?	这就是能够救活你的生命的种子
You know, that it's not just enough to survive.	因为单单求得生存是不够的
We've got to make something better than what we've got.	我们需要做得比我们现在做的更好
I think that, in fact, that "all of the past is but the beginning of a beginning.	过去的一切，都仅仅是开端的开始
So there's two bills in Congress right now.	这是目前国会的两个议案。
SOPA stands for the Stop Online Piracy Act.	SOPA表示禁止网络盗版法案。
But technology moved on, as technology is wont to do.	但是技术在发展，一直在进步
Because it turned out we're not really couch potatoes.	因为不是每个人都窝在沙发上看电视
They had wanted Congress to outlaw copying full-stop.	他们要的是国会禁止翻拍行为
That is a side effect of their ordinary operation.	这是电脑正常操作的一个副产品
We share written things, we share images, we share audio, we share video.	我们分享文稿，图片声频，视频
Some of the stuff we share is stuff we've made.	分享的东西有些是我们制作的
So PIPA and SOPA are round two.	PIPA和SOPA可是第二回合
The hard thing is this: get ready, because more is coming.	难的是因为有更多的还在等着我们
And what they want is not to have to do that.	他们真正想要的是不必那么干
They just want the sharing to go away.	他们只是想让分享彻底消失
In the meantime, the hard thing to do is to be ready.	同时困难之处还有要做好准备
They launched many, many successful attacks.	他们进行了很多很多成功的攻击。
The modern car is a sophisticated multi-computer device.	现代汽车是非常复杂的多电脑设备
You might produce a lot of speeding tickets.	这样会拿到很多超速罚单。
All of these were implemented successfully.	所有的实验都成功的实施了。
How would you steal a car in this model?	你要怎样去偷这类型的车呢？
I've got a few more of these interesting ones.	我还有几个很有趣的实验。
It was mostly law enforcement and criminal.	大多数都是执法和犯罪类的。
And so they had a simple setup.	因此他们有个很简单的设置。
It's the Supreme Court, right?	当然是"最高法院"，对吧？
So they ran the Pac-Man game.	他们安装了吃豆人游戏，所以呢？
The whole world was laid out for me.	笑我的整个世界都是提前安排好的。
Everything was at my feet.	所有的道路都在我的脚下，
And I wanted to give something back in my own way."	我想做点贡献以我自己的方式。"
A traditional midwife is a professional.	一个传统的接生婆属于专业人才
These are professionals all over the world.	专业人才存在于世界各地。
You eat on the floor, you sleep on the floor, you work on the floor.	学生在地板上吃饭、睡觉和工作。
There are no contracts, no written contracts.	我们没有合同，没有书面合同。
Battered, bruised, you start again.	受到打击、创伤之后，你可以重来。
And it's the only college where we don't give a certificate.	这也是唯一一所不授予证书的大学。
You are certified by the community you serve.	你所服务的社区会来评定你。
No water, rocky soil."	没有水，土层里有很多岩石。"
All the power comes from the sun.	所有的能量都是来自于太阳。
And what do we teach in these schools?	我们在这些学校都教什么呢?
This is what we teach in the night schools.	这就是我们在夜校教书的内容。
Every five years we have an election.	每五年我们都有一场选举。
First time ever going out of her village.	这是她第一次离开她的村庄。
He's my doctor. He's my lawyer.	他是我的医生。他也是我的律师
What's the best way of communicating in the world today?	现在世上最好的交流方式是什么？
This woman is an extraordinary grandmother.	这个妇女是一个非凡的奶奶。
We went to Africa, and we did the same thing.	我们去了非洲，做了同样的事。
I said, "I can't, Mr. President.	我说，"总统先生，我不能。
And 150 grandmothers have been trained in Sierra Leone.	有150名老奶奶在那接受训练。
I said, "No, I want to take this woman."	我说，"不，我想带走这位。"
"Difficult husband; not possible."	"她有一个难缠的丈夫；不可能。"
I said, "Yeah, she is very beautiful."	我说，"是啊，她很美丽。"
And listen to people. They have the solutions in front of you.	要学会倾听你面前有解决方法人。
They have all the solutions in the world.	他们能解决这个世界上所有问题。
I'll end with a quotation by Mahatma Gandhi.	我将以圣雄甘地的一句话作为结尾。
This first project is called the AlloBrain.	这第一个项目叫做全息大脑。
You're flying through the cortex of my colleague's brain.	你将会飞跃我一个同事的大脑皮层。
They're mining blood density levels.	他们在探测血液的密度水平。
And they're reporting them back to you sonically.	然后他们将通过声音给你汇报。
You view the bond in the triangle.	你看到了这个三角形的化学键。
We think it makes a beautiful structural art.	我们认为这创造了美丽的结构艺术。
Oxygen, hydrogen and zinc have their own signature.	氧，氢和锌有他们自己的特征。
And you're going to hear an undulation between the sound.	然后你将会听到一个波形的声音。
This is actually a light emitter.	这实际上是一个光发射器。
And they're understanding more about quantum mathematics.	然后他们就会更加了解量子数学。
You're actually seeing and hearing quantum information flow.	你将要看到和听到量子数据的流动。
Now -- -- all of you have done this.	现在--我们大家都能做这些。
So, just give it a moment of thought.	我给你们几分钟考虑一下。
You probably don't feel like you need a moment of thought.	你也许觉得根本不用考虑。
But these aren't the data. I made these up!	可其实这是我胡诌的数据。
What kind of remarkable machinery does this guy have in his head?	是什么力量让他如此强大？
Well, it turns out it's precisely the same remarkable machinery that all off us have.	这种力量是我们每个人都有。
Human beings have something that we might think of as a "psychological immune system."	人类具有一种心理免疫系统。
And what did he have to say about his experience?	他是这样描绘他的这些经历的呢？
And he thought, "That's a really neat idea!"	他立马想到"这是一个好主意！"
Why do we have that belief?	为什么人们有这样的观点？
In this case, because the experiment I'm going to tell you about uses them, these are Monet prints.	在这个实验中我们用6幅莫奈的画。
We're going to give you one as your prize to take home.	我们将把画作为奖品给你。
What happens? Watch as happiness is synthesized.	结果怎样？快乐被人工合成了。
"The one I got is really better than I thought!	"我有的这张比我预想的还要好。
That other one I didn't get sucks!"	我得不到的那张，其实不怎么样。"
Now what's the right response to that? "Yeah, right!"	现在你怎么想呢？"哦，是吧！"
We took our Monet prints to the hospital.	我们把莫奈的画拿到医院去。
And what we find is amnesiac patients just guess.	我们发现健忘症病人纯粹在猜。
Dilbert already knows, of course.	当然，呆伯特已经知道了。
You're reading the cartoon as I'm talking.	你一边看卡通，一边听我说。
"Free? Aren't you just giving me my own paper?"	"免费的？这本来就是我的纸啊？"
This is the difference between dating and marriage, right?	这就是约会和婚姻的区别，是吧？
You're married to a guy and he picks his nose?	如果你们结婚了，他扣扣鼻孔。
"Oh, yes. We need one as evidence of the class project.	"噢，不能。我们需要一张来留底。
Now, there are two conditions in this experiment.	现在，这个实验又分为两种。
So here's the final piece of this experiment.	这里是这个实验的最后一部分。
We should have preferences that lead us into one future over another.	我们确实应该追求价值更高的东西。
Night shots are beautiful, piercing the Big Dipper and the Milky Way.	夜间发射非常美丽，直刺云霄。
And the boys get bigger, and the rockets get bigger.	男孩子们在长大，火箭也随之变大。
Here was a drag race.	这是一个短程高速汽车赛。
It's a cadence you can't quite imagine.	节奏之快是你不能想象的。
"Hey, ma, I got to talk to you."	"嗳，妈，我得跟你说说话。"
I said, "I've got to talk to a bunch of nice people."	我说"我打算去对一群好人演讲。"
And I said, "Well, I'm not sure."	我就说，"嗯，我不太自信。"
I said, "You're a peach, ma. Pop there?"	我说，"服了你了，妈。爸在吗？"
"After what I just told you?"	"在我说了这事儿之后？"
My whole life, my father's been there.	从小到大，老爸对我有求必应。
But this story only happened a few years ago.	但下面这个故事发生在几年前。
It makes spit froth in the little corners of your mouth -- is that enough? It makes your armpits juicy, you know?	让你垂涎三尺。吃起来酣畅淋漓。
"Ma'am, did you know that was a light you just ran?"	"夫人，您刚才闯灯了您明白吗？"
Little picks on the legs, where she does her needlepoint, and leaves little loops.	长裤绣上花，特意留出小线圈
She gets into the car -- she's sitting on two phone books.	她上了车，屁股下垫着两本电话簿。
"He's got to sleep sometime."	"有时老虎也打盹儿呀。"
And I said, "Ma, would you slow down?"	我说，"妈，慢点儿行不？"
And there she goes, right.	还好，总算开始上道儿了。
"Mommy, I know you have been stopped."	"妈咪，我觉你被交警拦截过。"
"No, no, what you talking about?"	"当然没啊，你说啥呢？"
"You have a license. How long have you been driving?"	"拿到驾照了。开车多久了？"
"Yeah. And you haven't been stopped?"	"噢。你没被交警拦截过？"
"You weren't there, don't start."	"你又不在现场，别打岔。"
"Come on. You got a ticket?"	"哦说吧，你吃罚单了？"
"If it works, it works, baby.	"孩儿，说不定能管用哪。"
"No, I look up, and the light, she change."	"不是，我一抬头，交通灯变了。"
Now, you have all been at a mall during the holidays, yes?	你们都在节假日去过超市吧。
"No, don't -- why are we here today?	"不是啊，——今天来这儿干嘛？
"Because I have to exchange your father's underwear."	"我要来调换你爸的内裤。
"Why do we have to take pop's underwear back now?	"干嘛非要这个时候来换爸的内裤？
And why? What is wrong with his underwear?"	嗯？他的内裤哪儿不合适？"
See, we're a secret club with a secret handshake.	看到了吧，我们都一伙儿的。
This is -- you know, you'd think by now I'm -- and still holding?	不是吧，你们还觉得我仍在占位子？
She has amazing land speed for a woman her age, too.	她的开车速度也算身手不凡。
She carries a mean spiral notebook and a pen.	她带着漂亮的螺旋笔记本和笔。
She listens, because that's what people who tell stories do first.	她善听，会讲故事得先会听。
Now, when this kid says I got to look, you know.	一旦这孩子说让我看，你知道
But it isn't like I haven't seen this crime scene before.	这类事儿虽然我以前见多了。
"No, mama, you got to look."	"不行，妈妈，你看哪。"
She's holding out that cheap Kmart purse, and she is wielding it.	手里挥着她的廉价Kmart钱包。
Honey, sit up so they can see you."	亲爱的，坐直了人家才能看到你。"
We all secretly want our blankie and our Boo Bear.	想蜷缩在被窝里抱着玩具熊。
We want to curl up and say, "Tell it to me, tell it to me.	想撒着娇说，"讲嘛，讲嘛。"
But in the South, we love a good story.	在南方，我们爱听精彩的故事。
"I'm with the little lady. Damn!"	"我跟着这小老太婆。靠！"
And she's bringing me in with a slight salsa movement.	以轻盈的舞步，她将我带上前台。
Guess what? Some of these stories I sculpt a little, here and there.	没错，有时候我也看需要编筐编篓。
That's OK, because my mother yells at me, I yell at her.	我妈朝我叫，我朝我孩子嚷。€
He turns to her on the heel of his shoe.	那男子侧过身对她轻轻叹道，
I'm going to talk about two stories today.	今天我想给大家讲两个故事。
But now I'll talk about some more pleasant things.	但是，我想要谈论一些愉快的事情。
I can take a BMW when I'm seeing clients.	我可以开着宝马去见客户，
Why do we travel too much?	我们为什么要做如此多的出行呢？
We need to put this better market feedback.	我们需要更好的市场反馈。
And wireless technologies make this real-time loop possible.	无线技术让这种实时循环得以实现。
And what kind of wireless technology are we going to use?	我们将会使用什么样的无线技术呢？
"Ad-hoc peer-to-peer self-configuring wireless networks."	"临时的点对点自组网无线网络。"
I'm going to give you some examples.	我这里会给大家展示一些例子。
And what is the cost of that communication system?	而这套通讯系统的成本是多少呢？
Another example is in Portsmouth, U.K.	另一个例子在英国的朴次矛斯。
What are the incredible weaknesses?	那么它有什么致命的弱点呢？
How do we create a big network?	如何构建一个大型的网络呢？
These are the next two lines in the movie.	这就是电影里的两条主线。
I guess I just want you to think about that.	我希望诸位能认真考虑一下。
We should pull it forward.	我们需要立马将其排上日程安排。
My mom left Nairobi, Kenya.	我母亲离开了肯尼亚内罗毕。
And they got here in the late 1960s.	他们二十世纪60年代来到这里。
First of all, the news was so heavy.	首先，新闻报道让人忧心忡忡。
I was going through a lot of personal problems at the time.	当时，我遇到了不少个人的问题。
We talked about the TV show we watched that evening.	谈论了一下那天晚上看的电视节目，
I was like, that sounds totally fake.	我当时觉得这听起来太假了。
They are Attitude, Awareness and Authenticity.	它们是态度，知觉，和本真。
I'd love to just talk about each one briefly.	我想简短地逐个介绍一下。
Having a sense of awareness is just about embracing your inner three year-old.	拥有知觉就是拥抱内心中三岁的你。
Because you all used to be three years old.	因为你们都曾是三岁的孩子，
That three-year-old boy is still part of you.	那个三岁的小男孩，依然在你心里。
In his deeply authentic self, he also loved needlepoint.	在他的内心深处，他热爱刺绣。
It's just about being you and being cool with that.	心安理得地做最真实的自己。
You meet people that you like talking to.	你会遇见跟自己合得来的人。
So I wanted to ask them to, if they don't mind, stand up.	如果他们不介意，我想请他们起立。
Is this A&amp;P?"	这里是A&amp;P市场吗？"
And so we'd buy the date, and we'd go home.	于是，我们买下了椰枣，回到家里。
There are so many things to be happy about.	生活中充满了令人惊喜的事。
You can watch a horror movie with monsters.	你可以和怪兽一起看恐怖电影。
You can sleep in clean sheets.	你可以睡在干净的床单上，
You can go to the movies and get good seats.	可以去看电影并找到好位置，
We gave the office a few days off.	我们只好给员工放了几天假。
And that was the mission that we came up with.	这个就是我们提出来的任务。
They moved to an abandoned school.	他们搬迁到一个废弃的学校。
At the same time the city had this need.	同时市政府也有这样的需要。
And we had to start construction the next day.	我们必须在第二天就开始建造。
Just the sort of everyday heroics of New Yorkers.	就是某种纽约人的日常的英雄主义。
We'd have to go back to the beginning to do this."	我们必须从头开始做这个项目。"
He had already ordered materials based on my go-ahead.	他也已经按照我的要求订购了材料。
And we just felt it had to happen.	我们只是觉得它必须完成。
So I thought that would be good to end with.	所以我认为这是个很好的结束方式。
So you can get kind of a feel for this.	所以你能感觉到大概的意思。
It's what I study. It's what I treat.	这也是我所学习和要解决的问题。
In case you missed it, we'll look again.	如果你没注意，我们再看一遍。
The average concussive impact is 95 Gs.	平均的脑震荡的撞击力是95克。
Because I know our brains are resilient.	因为我知道我们的大脑具有恢复性。
But kids are more vulnerable to brain injury.	但是儿童更易发生脑损伤。
But I do know there are three things you can do.	但是我知道有三件事你们能做。
You have to be familiar with the issues we're talking about today.	你们需要熟悉我们今天讨论的东西。
Speak up also with coaching staff.	同样包括教练组成员去代言。
Ask about what kind of protective equipment is available.	询问有什么样的保护设施。
So I just want to tell you my story.	我想跟大家谈谈我的故事。
So I discovered some very interesting things.	我发现了一些非常有趣的事实
In the 19th century, it was a corrupt politician.	到了19世纪，这个词指贪污的政客
No wonder people are averse to doodling at work.	难怪人们反对在工作中涂鸦。
And they have bosses who scold them for doodling in the boardroom.	还有在开会时涂鸦而被上司批评。
So here's a new definition for doodling.	以下是涂鸦这个词新的定义
He was told that a cure did not exist.	但被告知这种病不可医治。
Luckily, those patents did not exist everywhere.	幸运的是，此类专利并不是到处都有
People who have access to these drugs stop dying.	买得起这类药品的人不再被判处死刑
This is fairly recent science that has shown that.	这是最新的科学研究显示的
So what India did is no longer possible.	因此印度的做法也就不再成为可能
It isn't only the number of drugs that are patented.	我说的不仅是专利药品的数量
Again, deliberate action is needed.	所以我强调，我们需要行动
There is one key difference with the airplane patent pool.	这件事与飞机专利库的关键区别在于
That is something that the Medicines Patent Pool cannot do.	这在药品专利库则不能实行的
People would feel really fine in an open outdoor environment.	人们会在室外的环境中感觉很好
But that's not all what we need to do. We need to use active systems.	不过那还不够我们还要用动力系统
We don't borrow any energy from history.	我们不用其他历史上的任何能量
And I had the pleasure to work on the central plaza.	而且我非常高兴我在中心的广场工作
He is an outstanding person, because he's a small entrepreneur.	他非常杰出因为他是一位企业家
But what fuels this?	但是是什么驱动了这些呢？
But there's an interesting paradigm.	但是，同时也有一个有趣的范式
So, what we call this is a silicon cottage industry.	因此，我们称之为硅谷"山寨"行业
Believe me, those little classrooms are really noisy.	请相信我，那些小教室确实非常嘈杂
One of the key issues was battery consumption and charging.	一个关键的问题是电池耗电量和充电
It's basically a little health care screening tool that we developed.	这是我们研发的一个小型健康检测仪
And then the pointer goes and points to three different options.	然后指针就指向三个不同的标准
And the daughter was exhausted from caring for her mother.	这个女儿因为照顾老母而筋疲力竭，
Why are we embedded in social networks?	我们为什么会身陷这些社会网络中？
I mean, how do they form? How do they operate?	它们是如何成立的？是如何工作的？
So this is a slide of some of our initial results.	这里看到的是我们的初步研究结果。
But the visual complexity is still very high.	但是这个视觉复杂性还是很高的，
And, most importantly, what causes the clusters?	最重要的是，聚集的原因是什么？
On the far left, you see the purple line.	在最左端，你看到那条紫色线。
Blame your fat friends."	怪罪你的那些肥朋友吧。"
Lots of people are doing things at the same time.	多个人都在同时做着同样的事情。
So, again, every dot is a person.	同样的，每个圆点都是一个人。
And, eventually, we became interested in emotions.	最终，我们对情感产生了兴趣。
But they never look like this.	但它们却从来不会是这个样子的？
Why do they not look like this?	它们为什么不是这个样子的呢？
And now I'm highlighting a few dots.	我这里着重挑选了几个圆点，
That's very obvious, we all know that.	这是显而易见的，我们都知道。
This is known as transitivity in networks.	这就是网络中的可传递性。
You'd rather be D, on the edge of the network.	你当然是想当D，处在网络的边缘。
Now, what is the point of this?	说这一起的目的是什么呢？
Well, the argument I'd like to make is that networks have value.	我的论点是这些社会网络充满价值。
You hear about it all the time.	你可能总是听到别人这么说
Study after study is coming to the same conclusion.	一个又一个的研究证实了相同的结论
They're more accepting of sadness than younger people are.	他们比年轻人更能接受悲伤情绪
You know, after all, if it doesn't work out, there's always tomorrow.	毕竟就算失败了，也还有明天
What will happen to societies that are top-heavy with older people?	社会老龄化之后会有什么改变？
Anybody? Anybody? Yeah!	你们谁看过吗？看过吗？啊，好
They could spin on their heads for 80 times in a row.	他们能头顶在地上连续转80多圈
I'd never seen anything like that.	这是我以前从来没有见识过的
And those guys, those were like, ultimate heroes.	而这些家伙，他们就是终级英雄
It is insane what dance is right now.	现在的舞蹈真是令人不可思议
Dance has never had a better friend than technology.	没有什么比科技更能推动舞蹈的发展
And, I don't know, I kind of get a kick out of that a little bit.	我不知道，我觉得这挺逗的
And then another thing opens, you close that.	然后另一块打开然后你关起来
Because at that point it's just really like, it's my body and the music.	因为那一刻音乐就是我身体的一部分
And you just got this piece of energy and you just, you're manipulating it.	你就把握了这股力量你只是控制它
The Lakota defeat the U.S. army.	拉科塔人战胜了美国军队。
He was later killed while in custody.	他之后在关押期间被杀害。
Only 10 percent of the adult male population signed.	只有百分之十的成年男子签了字。
That clause was obviously ignored.	这一条款很显然已经被忽略不计了。
Communal ownership of reservation lands ends.	保留地公有的时代就此终结。
Tribes lost millions of acres.	印第安部落损失了上百万英亩土地。
At least 60 percent of the homes on the reservation are infested with black mold.	百分之六十以上的住房发了霉。
Cervical cancer is five times higher than the U.S. national average.	宫颈癌患病率比全国平均值高五倍。
This is the legacy of manifest destiny.	这是命定扩张论所衍生的后遗症。
And how much of this history do you need to own, even?	你们对这些历史事件应付多少责任？
I have been told that there must be something we can do.	有人告诉我说我们肯定能做些什么。
There must be some call to action.	我需要号召大家行动起来，
Now, we've known for a long time the cause of diarrhea.	我们对痢疾的病因已经很熟悉
That's why there's a glass of water up there.	所以我放了一杯水的照片在那
For us, it's a problem, the people in this room.	对在座的各位来说这是个麻烦
They lack nutrients, and diarrhea dehydrates them.	他们缺乏营养痢疾会导致脱水
And so, as a result, there is a lot of death, a lot of death.	因此会有很多人夭折很多人夭折
One of the big reasons this happened was because of diarrhea.	很重要的一个原因就是痢疾
Still a big number, but a big drop.	比例仍较高但已经降了很多
It looks like the technological problem is solved.	看上去技术上的问题已解决
It's not even unique to poor people in India.	甚至印度的穷人也不是特例
Here's an example from a variety of contexts.	这是从很多文献中找到的一个例子
I'll start with insulin, diabetes medication in the U.S.	我从美国治疗糖尿病的胰岛素说起
The last mile is, everywhere, problematic.	最后一英里的问题无处不在难以攻克
When we're dealing with people like this?	当我们面对人的问题的时候
Should you increase, maintain or decrease the number of fluids?"	应该增加保持还是减少液体摄入?"
And that is, you don't put water into a leaky bucket.	也就是不把水倒在漏的水桶里
So, think of the mental model that goes behind reducing the intake.	这个思维模型就是减少输入
It just doesn't happen to be right about the world.	但是应用到实际当中就发生了错误
But it makes a whole lot of sense at some deep level.	但是从深层次上来讲是有道理的
How much does the ball cost? Quick.	那么一个球要花多少钱?要快
So, here you all are, ostensibly educated people.	你们都明显是受过教育的人
How is that possible? Let's go to something else.	怎么会这样?再看看其他的
There's a great show on American television that you have to watch.	美国有个很赞的电视节目不得不看
I think we've learned the answer to that here.	我想我们刚才已经有了答案
Here's what I'm going to do: I'm going to put objects on the screen.	接下来我会在屏幕上显示一些物体
I just want you to name the color of the object.	我要你们念出这些物体的颜色
Sendhil Mullainathan: That's pretty good.	森德希尔穆拉伊特丹:很好
Diarrhea, and many last mile problems, are like that.	腹泻和很多最后一英里问题一样
They are situations where the mental model doesn't match the reality.	使那些思维方式与实际情况不吻合
Now, I do this stuff because it's fun.	我做这个实验是因为这很有趣
But it's more profound than fun.	但这不仅仅在于它是有趣的
I'll give you a good example of how it actually effects persuasion.	关于说服力我给大家举个很好的例子
So now, while you're thinking about that let's move to a second task.	你们边思考边看第二个任务
One person walks into a car lot, and they're thinking about buying this Toyota Yaris.	有个人走进车场他想买辆丰田的飞度
Which one of these people has done more for the environment?	哪个人对环境的贡献更大呢?
Miles per gallon is the way we present things.	我们习惯用每加仑的里程来阐述
Researchers have found these type of anomalies.	研究人员发现了很多相似的情形
Okay, back to BMW. What should they do?	再回到宝马他们该怎么做?
The problem BMW faces is this car looks safe.	宝马面临的问题是这车看上去很安全
There's a truck on the right. Boxes fall out of the truck.	右边有辆火车车上的箱子掉了下来
The car swerves to avoid it, and therefore doesn't get into an accident.	宝马车迅速躲避避免了车祸
Remarkably successful campaign, but notice the power of it.	相当成功的宣传但请关注其中的深意
So, let me now talk about the last mile problem.	我现在来谈谈最后一英里的问题
I've been trying to show you the oddities of human behavior.	我一直向你们传递人类行为的丑恶面
You gotta carry the bottle, you gotta carry the syringe.	既要带着瓶子有要带注射器
This is a pen, it's called an insulin pen, preloaded.	它是一支笔叫做胰岛素笔针预载的
That's what I'm talking about as a last mile opportunity.	这就是我想说的最后一英里的机遇
We're spending a lot of time on fuel cells right now.	我们现在在做很多能量电池的研究
"You're doing worse." Frown.	"你做的不太好"加个苦脸
So, how do we tackle the last mile?	我们如何突破这最后一英里呢?
But you know what we need to combine it with?	但我们还需要把什么加进来呢?
We have testing, we go to the lab, we try it again, we have refinement.	我们测试然后在研究再测试然后改进
But you know what we do on the last mile?	但看看我们在最后一英里做了什么?
The amount of resources we put in are disparate.	我们对两者的重视度是迥异的
Now, I think that we're on the verge of something big.	我认为有个重大变革正在向我们走来
We're on the verge of a whole new social science.	我们将迎来一个崭新的社会科学
Because they've seen it on the ground.	因为他们是在实际中观察的
And then we say, "Well, you want to get this behavior change.	我们跟他们说你要是想改变某种行为
I'm a huge believer in hands-on education.	我是亲自实践教育的忠实拥护者。
Well it's 150 times more resistant to electric current than that salt dough.	它的电阻是咸橡皮泥的150倍。
And so I want to do a little demo for you.	那么我来为你们做个小小的演示。
If I separate them again, I have some light.	如果我分开它们，灯就亮了。
So this is all in your home kitchen.	这些在家里的厨房中就能做到。
You can't help but actually ripping that spider web apart.	游客一动，就把蜘蛛网给扯破了。
We do them for our clients.	这些都是我们为客户做的。
It said, "Money does does make me happy."	它是"金钱确实确实让我快乐"。
So this is the big pedestrian zone in Linz.	这就是林茨最大的步行街。
Singapore was quite in discussion.	在新加坡的设计曾经讨论过。
This is newsprint plus stencils that lie on the newsprint.	这是新闻用纸和放在上面的模版。
You can do it immediately, right?	你们马上就能做到,可好?
I talked to a nice girl before, Zoe.	早前我跟一位好姑娘聊过，穗--
One item here was water, right?	这里有样东西是水，对吗?
Now, you can carry this in your wallet, so ...	您可将它放进钱包带着，那就--
The new chaos theory is already old, right?	那"新混沌论"已过时咯，对吗?
So that's a tough challenge, right?	可是一个挺难的挑战啊，对吗?
This is a kind of optical deal, right?	这可算是一种"错视发牌"吧?
Same mistake as before, right?	跟之前一样的错了，对吧?
So -- I arrange the spades -- the clubs.	嗯,我将黑桃--梅花排好
Armani -- who said Armani? You?	阿玛尼--谁说阿玛尼?你吗?
I look -- shake the cards, so I don't.	我看看--搞一下牌，我才不能--
No, with dignity and elegance, right?	不，帶点尊重和優雅，好吗?
And there are some of us who think you ain't seen nothing yet.	而另一群人觉得这不过是刚刚开始。
Maybe you have this child at home.	你家里可能就有这么一个小孩。
I see some of you recognize this child.	我知道有些人认识这个小孩。
Then he practices for another and takes lessons -- now he's 10.	然后他再练习，上课，他十岁了。
At that point, they usually give up.	这时候他们一般就放弃了。
What actually happened was the impulses were reduced.	其实是当中的停顿减少了。
And the second, with an impulse every other note.	现在是两个音符停顿一次。
The nine-year-old put an impulse on every four notes.	现在是9岁的小孩，9岁4个音符。
He was the president of a corporation in Ohio.	他是俄亥俄州一间公司的老板。
You should be a one-buttock player."	你应该坐半个屁股来演奏。"
He said, "I was so moved.	他说，"我当时感触很深，
Now, the other thing I wanted to do is to tell you about you.	好，另外一件我想告诉你们的事是，
That's the first group; it's quite a small group.	这是第一种人，为数不多。
A little Vivaldi in the background doesn't do any harm.	来一点威尔第的音乐。真好。
That's probably the largest group of all.	这大概就是为数最多的一群人。
And then there's a very small group.	最后，还有为数不多的一群人。
Amazing number of people think they're tone-deaf.	真神奇，很多人都认为自己是音盲。
The tone-deaf people, they're no longer here.	即便"音盲"是不存在的，
But even between those three categories, it's too wide a gulf.	但是剩下三组人的差距还是很大。
Do you know what I think probably happened in this room?	你猜我觉得刚刚屋里发生了什么？
But basically, it's just a B, with four sads.	其实就是一个B,和4个悲伤而已。
Or they say, "Hamlet has an Oedipus complex."	或者，"哈姆雷特有恋母情结。"
Right. So, he gets to E, but it's the wrong chord.	好，他到了E，但是是错的和铉。
So this is a piece which goes from away to home.	所以，这就是从远方回家的曲子。
What was he thinking about? Lunch?	他当时在想些什么？午饭么？
I was clapping. They were clapping.	我也在鼓掌。他们在鼓掌。
Finally, I said, "Why am I clapping?"	我问，"为什么我也在鼓掌？"
And one of the little kids said, "Because we were listening."	一个小孩叫到，"因为我们在听。"
But I tell you what happened to me.	但是我要给你讲一个故事。
They say three percent of the population likes classical music.	他们说，3%的人喜欢古典音乐。
See, these are totally different worlds.	看，这将是一个大不同的世界。
The conductor of an orchestra doesn't make a sound.	乐团指挥自己完全不出一声。
He depends, for his power, on his ability to make other people powerful.	他的能量在于发挥别人的力量。
And of course, I wanted to know whether I was doing that.	当然，我想知道我有没有做到这点。
We can do that with our children, too.	这也可以用在我们的孩子身上。
That's a totally different world.	这是一个大为不同的世界。
It's about how many shining eyes I have around me.	是在我身边有多少双闪光的眼睛。
Shining eyes, shining eyes.	闪光的眼睛，闪光的眼睛。
I need to make a confession at the outset here.	开始前我必须先向你们告解
To put it mildly, I didn't do very well.	客气地说，我的成绩不怎么好
So, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, take a look at this.	陪审团的女士先生们，请看看这个
Some of you might have seen this before.	你们之中有些人可能已经看过了
Three and a half minutes longer. Now this makes no sense right?	整整三分半种。这不合理，不是吗？
That's not how it's supposed to work. Right?	这个实验不太对劲吧？对吗？
Bonuses, commissions, their own reality show.	红利、佣金、他们自己的真人秀
Incentivize them. That's how business works.	赋予他们动机。这就是商业法则
And what's interesting about this experiment is that it's not an aberration.	有趣的事情是，这个实验不是误差
This has been replicated over and over and over again, for nearly 40 years.	它被一再重复在过去的四十年间
And I'm telling you, it's not even close.	我可以告诉你，两者相差悬殊
The solution is not over here. The solution is on the periphery.	解答不在那里，解答是在周围
Let me tell you why this is so important.	让我告诉你这个问题的重要性
Okay? I'm a lawyer; I don't believe in feelings.	我是个律师，我才不信什么感觉
I'm an American; I don't believe in philosophy.	我是个美国人，我才不信什么哲学
Lets go to Madurai, India and test this."	让我们去印度的马杜赖试试。"
Same deal. A bunch of games, three levels of rewards.	一样地，一些不同游戏，三种奖励
And do you know who sponsored this research?	你知道赞助这实验的是谁吗？
There is a mismatch between what science knows and what business does.	科学知识和商业行为之间有条鸿沟
It's an approach built much more around intrinsic motivation.	这个新方向讲求内在的诱因
Autonomy: the urge to direct our own lives.	自主性，想要主掌自己人生的需求
These are the building blocks of an entirely new operating system for our businesses.	这些便是建立新商业机制的基石
They call them FedEx Days.	他们叫这是FedEx联邦快递日
In a ROWE people don't have schedules.	在ROWE之中，人们没有日程表
A few years later another encyclopedia got started.	几年后另一个百科全书计划开始了
This is the titanic battle between these two approaches.	这是一个两种模式之间的世纪战役
This is the Thrilla' in Manila.	就像那场在马尼拉的拳王之战
Alright? Intrinsic motivators versus extrinsic motivators.	是吗？内在动机和外在动机
So, it can balance on a point.	这样在某种程度上就达成一种平衡。
I was exploring, really early on, wanting to make things float in the air.	早期我探究的是，让物体浮在空中。
This is sculpture that I made that -- it's magnetically levitated.	这是我做的一个模型-磁悬浮的。
I was thinking that the Sun is kind of the ultimate alchemist.	我觉得太阳好似个终极炼金术士。
And then the Moon in the center, and it's floating. And this is in France.	月亮在中心。悬浮着。这是在法国。
So as you turn around you're seeing different colors.	你四周转转，会看到不同的颜色。
And so I placed one more element of each one of them.	所以我在它们之间多放了一个元素。
This is something I did of a tactile communication system.	这是我为触感通信系统所做的。
It turns once per day in synchrony with the Earth.	每天转动一次，与地球同步。
In the course of doing my work I sort of have a broad range of interests.	工作让我拥有广泛的兴趣。
And I had a lot of -- always interested in the concept of a crystal ball.	我对于-水晶球的想法特别感兴趣。
So if we could roll the next film here.	下面看这里，我们的下一个片子
It has speakers on it. And it has cameras over the surface of it.	它有麦克风。它的表面有摄像头。
The idea of it is to make a kind of a traveling show.	这个点子是做个好象旅游的节目。
It really would be dedicated to the arts and to interacting.	它真的可以用于艺术和互动。
It's completely silent and nonpolluting.	这几乎没有噪音也不污染环境。
So it could land in a park, for example.	比如说，它在一个公园着陆。
And then it would have a corresponding website that would show the itinerary of this.	它还有个相应的网站说明它的行程。
And so interacting with the same kind of imagery.	还有同样类型的图片随之互动。
I happen to have triplets.	我有三个孩子，他们是三胞胎。
Sometimes I tell people I have triplets.	当我告诉人们我有三胞胎的时候
Now, I also happen to be gay.	现在，我也是一个同性恋。
We have two rulebooks.	我们有两套不同的游戏规则，
Not necessarily. They might be smart.	这不一定，可能是因为他们更聪明
The fourth area is time.	第四个歧视的地方就是时间。
And the last area is profit itself.	最后一个领域就是利润本身。
So why do we think this way?	那么我们的这些观念是怎么来的？
Well, this created a real problem for these people, right?	这给这些人出了一个大难题，对吧？
Making all this money will get you sent directly to Hell.	赚钱让你坐上下地狱的直通车。
2002 was our most successful year ever.	2002年是我们最成功的一年，
Our sponsor went and tried the events on their own.	我们的赞助人用自己的方式管理。
Now we're talking the potential for real change.	这是我们想要的真正的变革。
They are all, you know, warming up and doing stuff.	他们在热身，为演出做着准备
And suddenly, out of the chaos, order.	突然间，从一边混乱变得井井有条
I hope you'll think it's a good example of harmony.	我希望您認为这是一个和谐的好例子
Then you have the clapping audience, yeah, actually taking part in doing the music.	还有拍和的观众也实际上参与演出
You know Viennese audiences usually don't interfere with the music.	维也纳爱乐团的观众通常不干扰演奏
You have the story of the orchestra as a professional body.	你听到乐团作为专业团体的故事
You have the stories of the individuals in the orchestra and in the audience.	乐团中和观众里个人的故事
And all those stories are being heard at the same time.	那些所有的故事都同时被听到
This is the true experience of a live concert.	这就是现场演奏的真实经验
That's a reason to go out of home. Yeah?	这不就是踏出家门的理由?
Can you sing, please, the first note of Don Giovanni?	你们可以唱唐喬凡尼的第一个音吗?
When Muti is asked, "Why do you conduct like this?"	当穆提被问:"为何你这样指挥?"
Audience: Itay Talgam: Why not together?	观众:依泰塔伽:为什么不齐?
"Do you understand what this guy wants?"	"你知不知这个人想怎样?"
Can we have the next video, quickly?	请放映下一个片段,可以快点吗?
Lenny Bernstein, my own personal maestro.	乐尼北司提汀,我心爱的大师
Like all stories, it has a beginning.	与所有故事一样，它也有一个开头。
If you could help me with that it would be fantastic.	如果你们能帮我一把，那就完美了。
Completely unprecedented, historically.	这是空前的，历史上最多的，
Otherwise you'd flood your entire town with warm porridge.	否则，整个城市将被温燕麦粥淹没。
It's something that was unimaginable to people then.	对人类来说，这真是不可思议。
This is a popular story in some places.	在一些地方，这种观点比较普遍。
Energy and technology are not the same thing.	能源和科技不是同一个事物。
What I'm involved with is the transition response.	我潜心于转变响应的积极措施。
It's something which has spread incredibly fast.	转变响应以惊人的速度传播。
It learns very much from its mistakes.	从错误中可以学习到很多。
And it's a process which is really joyful.	在此过程中的确充满乐趣。
One of the things that underpins it is this idea of resilience.	支撑上述观点的是可恢复性理论。
The idea of resilience comes from the study of ecology.	可恢复性理论源于生态学，
So how does this transition idea work?	因此，这个转变的想法如何运作？
They pick up some of the tools that we've developed.	他们使用我们开发的一些工具，
They show films, they give talks, and so on.	他们观看电影，开展讨论等等。
Planting productive trees throughout urban spaces.	在广阔的城乡种植经济树木。
I've been astonishingly lucky, we've been astonishingly lucky.	我曾非常幸运，我们曾非常幸运。
Now out of that pie, the government spends 36 percent.	而在这块馅饼中政府开支占了36%
In fact, this is the forecast picture.	实际上，这就是未来的发展趋势
This is what you see at this overall level.	这是从总体角度所看到的情况
Now how did we get here?	那么我们是怎么落到这一地步的？
But what this means actually is that there's a pretense.	言下之意就是其中存在猫腻
And these were somewhat noticed.	这些把戏多少已经露出了马脚
It perpetuates deficit spending.	"这使得赤字不断扩大。"
It's riddled with gimmicks."	"其中充满了骗人的把戏。"
And California's not unique.	加利福尼亚州不是唯一的案例
In fact, no, education spending should not be cut.	实际上，教育支出不应被削减
It's also really a problem for where we need to go.	另一个大问题是我们应从哪里入手
That's something I think is very, very important.	我认为这么做非常非常重要
Well there really is no brain trust.	其实，这里根本就不存在智囊团
I'm going to use my website to put up some things that will give the basic picture.	我将利用我的网站来展示基本的情况
We need better accounting.	我们需要更好地完成会计工作
It should be more like private accounting.	这应该更像是私人会计服务
And finally, we need to really reward politicians.	最后，我们需要好好奖励政治家
Now I think this is a solvable problem.	我认为这是可以得到解决的
Thank you. It's a distinct privilege to be here.	谢谢。能在这里演出是我的荣幸。
I wanted to become that kind of Red Cross doctor, that doctor without borders.	我想成为红十字会医生，无国界医生
On the other hand, I had played the violin my entire life.	另一方面，我一生都在演奏小提琴
If you're laughing, you know what I mean.	如果你在笑，说明你知道我的意思。
So here are some other results.	因此这里还有一些其它的结果。
Needless to say, I no longer dine with these people.	不用说，我不再和这些人一起吃饭。
These people I still do hang out with.	我还一直和这些人在一起。
It would, of course, be a horizontal line along the top.	当然会是沿顶端的一条水平线。
That is, of course, sex. Great sex.	当然那是性爱，伟大的性爱。
Here's three quick ideas I came up with.	下面是我想出的三个小点子。
We could call this "the perfumator."	我们可以叫这个"香味制造器"。
Maybe that could be the topic of my next talk.	或许那将是我下一次演讲的话题。
Don't they just pop into your head?	这些理由是不是总是会突然冒出来？
This is the theme of my talk today.	而这便是我今天演讲的主题。
If you have kids, you know what I mean.	如果你有小孩,你就会明白。
Almost everything kids do is art.	几乎所有的小孩都会摆弄点艺术。
And some kids, when they get a bit older, start to lie.	有些孩子长大一些后，会开始撒谎。
It's amazing. It's a wonderful moment.	这很神奇。这是一个极好的时刻。
On his own, he wrote these sentences.	他靠自己写下了这些句子。
In other words, it's useless.	换句话说，这是毫无用处的，
They have fun in the moment and they keep playing in the sand.	他们很快乐继续玩他们的沙子。
They talk about these kinds of experiences.	他们谈到了这样一些经历。
You must have had such a moment.	你们也肯定会有这样的时光，
In that moment, art makes you happy because it's not work.	艺术使你变得快乐因为这不是工作，
It's a bit mischievous, actually.	事实上，这句话有一点促狭的，
Of course, there were kids who had to.	当然，有些孩子需要那样做。
But such a teacher is seldom found.	但是这样的老师很难找得到。
Look at this. Doesn't it look just like wallpaper?	看看这个，这不像是一张墙纸？
Usually they sound awful. Awful indeed.	通常他们唱得很糟糕，真的很糟糕，
Some people turn into rockers like this.	有些人变成像这样的摇滚乐手，
They go, "Don't touch it. Daddy will do it for you."	他们会说"别碰它，老爸帮你做"
What kind of sentence is this? Look at your handwriting!"	这是什么句子啊？看看你的字迹！"
The students go into a kind of trance.	学生们进入了一种恍惚的状态，
Why we cannot be something is not important.	我们不能成为什么并不重要，
Mostly, they have the faces of our parents.	通常，他们有着我们父母的面孔，
The magic question is, "What for?"	这个魔法问题就是"为了什么？"
But art is not for anything.	但是艺术并不是为了什么，
He proudly said he played King Lear.	他自豪地说他扮演李尔王。
Someone is a golfer by day and writer by night.	有人白天是高尔夫球员晚上是作家，
Any advice for aspiring Korean dancers?"	对有志的韩国舞蹈家有什么忠告吗？
So what should we do now?	那么现在我们该干什么呢？
Let's start with how I got to this point.	我们从我的成长历程讲起。
Did it mean that Venus had an ionosphere?	这是表明金星上有电离层，
Its changes will affect all of humanity.	它的变化会影响到全人类。
If so, more warming is in the pipeline.	如果是的，更严重的变暖正在萌生。
And the land, to depths of tens of meters, is also warming.	陆地到十米深的地方，也在升温。
But that lag is exactly what is expected.	但是这正是我们所预期的。
Methane is also beginning to escape from the permafrost.	甲烷也开始从冻土中逃出。
What sea level rise can we look forward to?	海平面将会上升至什么程度？
Where you are sitting now would be under water.	各位现在坐的地方会在水下。
Ice sheets would continue to disintegrate for centuries.	冰盖将连着几个世纪持续消融。
The economic consequences are almost unthinkable.	随之而来的经济损失是不可想象的。
Global warming is already affecting people.	全球变暖已经在影响我们了。
Leaves energy decisions to individual choices.	让公民个人为能源做决定。
Sounds like a conservative climate plan."	听起来像是一个保守的气候计划。"
But we aren't even starting.	然而我们到现在都没有开始。
We owe it to our children and grandchildren.	我们要对我们的后代负责。
During that time, health and safety has become everything about my job.	在设计时，健康和安全是重中之重。
That's one of the most dangerous horse stunts, certainly.	这当然是最危险的马特技之一。
We couldn't do them without technology.	没有科技的支持我们根本无法做到。
I could, quite literally, fire myself into the gallery.	我能像这样把自己弹射到长廊那儿。
Which I'm sure you wouldn't want.	我可能你们不想看到我这么做。
Showing how stunts work in different areas, really.	显示如何在不同实际区域进行特技。
The car on the left drove into the steel pillar.	这辆车从左侧撞向这个钢制支柱。
But now we have a compressed nitrogen cannon.	但现在我们有压缩氮气炮。
I sort of forget how bizarre some of those conversations are.	我都没意识到这样的对话有多奇怪。
A loop-the-loop, biggest in the world.	一个翻车特技，世界上最难的。
Only one person had ever done it before.	只有一个人之前曾做到过。
Let's just go for it. Foot flat to the floor."	我们只管冲过去。紧贴着地面。"
Well, you'd die if you did that.	如果你真这么做了，那就死定了。
High falls, they're old fashioned stunts.	从高处坠落，是老式的特技。
Just basically though, it is a basic piece of equipment.	虽然很基础，它是项基础的设备。
That's all it is, a bouncy castle.	这就是它，一个充气城堡。
What's interesting is we still use cardboard boxes.	有趣的是，我们仍然在使用纸箱。
This is a shot of "Terminator," the movie.	这是电影终结者中的一幕。
We fly people on wires, like this.	我们让人吊在钢丝飞舞，像这样。
And this is a Guinness World Record attempt.	这是项吉尼斯世界纪录的尝试。
Project Excelsior, it was called.	这被称为Excelsior计划。
So that's the balloon, big gas balloon.	这就是那个气球，大氢气球。
So it's an extremely hostile place to be.	因此这是个极度危险的地方。
He's a very humble and wonderful human being.	他是个非常谦逊和美妙的人。
I've found that team in America now.	我是在美国找到这个团队的。
Those are the drogue chutes. He had three of them.	这是阻力伞发射器。他带了三个。
It's hundreds of feet high. It's enormous.	它有数百英尺高。非常巨大。
It's a three sided box, basically.	基本上，它就是个三面的盒子。
So I've had to do quite a lot of training.	因此我不得不进行了大量的训练。
Your blood tries to boil. It's called vaporization.	血液开始沸腾。这被称为气化。
The body swells up. It's awful.	身体开始膨胀。太可怕了。
And so we expect -- it's not much fun.	因此我们期望--不是那么有趣。
Thank you. He's very hot. Thank you, Costa.	谢谢。他很性感。谢谢你科斯塔。
Would you just give us a little twirl, please, Costa?	科斯塔请稍微转个圈好么？
Ladies and gentlemen, that's just about it from me.	女士们先生们，这些就是我要说的。
I think it's a great challenge.	我认为这是项巨大的挑战。
Thank you very much for your time.	非常感谢各位来听我的演讲。
Don't you? I find this very interesting.	难道不是吗?我发现这很有趣
You're not asked.	所以你不会被问及你是做哪行的。
And you're never asked back, curiously. That's strange to me.	你永远不会被问到，很奇怪。
And we squander them, pretty ruthlessly.	而我们却无情地扼杀了他们的才能。
We considered this to be one of the lead parts.	我们以为那是个主要角色。
If they don't know, they'll have a go.	对于未知的事物，他们愿意去尝试。
And we run our companies like this, by the way.	这种情况也存在于公司经营方面。
In fact, we moved from Stratford to Los Angeles.	现在我已经搬到了洛杉矶。
You'd think it would be otherwise, but it isn't.	你认为也许会有例外，但没有。
Everywhere on Earth.	世界上所有国家都是如此。
I think math is very important, but so is dance.	我认为舞蹈课和数学课同样重要。
And slightly to one side.	而且略微偏重大脑的一侧。
They're the people who come out the top.	因为大学教授是象牙塔尖上的人。
And there's a reason.	形成这种状况还有个原因--
So the hierarchy is rooted on two ideas.	所以有两点基本的等级原则。
It's a process of academic inflation.	这就是学术学位的通货膨胀。
Secondly, intelligence is dynamic.	第二，好学生应该是充满活力的。
And for the future, it won't serve us.	但这种方式对于未来将不再适用。
What TED celebrates is the gift of the human imagination.	TED倡导的是人类的创造性思维。
This talk is about righting writing wrongs.	这个演讲是关于纠正写错的内容。
No, the sound's not faulty -- righting writing wrongs.	不，你没听错--纠正写错的内容。
who had started a successful new tribe.	开始一个成功的喜剧新尝试。
Here's how the dots connected.	这些事物是这样一点点链接而成
Let's just say "value for money."	我们就说"钱生值财源滚滚来。"
Stay away from bolitics in the Middle East.	在中东得远离政治敏感话题。
20 years ago, no one had heard of it.	20年前，没人听说过这喜剧团。
These comics are now going to the New York festival.	这些喜剧现在在纽约艺术节上表演
Well, if you're used to listening to comedians, then I'm not surprised.	如果你曾听过喜剧，就一点不惊奇。
Clearly, there are wrongs that need to be righted.	显然地，这里有错需要被纠正。
We've started in our region.	在我们的地区我们开始纠正。
Unfortunately, the news is not all good.	不幸的是，并非全都是好消息。
It's also morbidity.	也对应着疾病的悄然萌发。
You're probably thinking that doesn't make any sense.	你可能没想到精神疾病会排在第一，
One is that they're highly prevalent.	首先是这些疾病非常普遍。
But most important, go back to where we started.	但最重要的是，回到我们开始讲述的
And I'm not a trained academic.	我并不是一个训练有素的学者，
Neither am I a veteran social worker.	也不是一个资深的社会工作者。
The first thing that we did was walk through the slums.	我们做的第一件事就是走访贫民区。
My God! What a bonding exercise that was.	天呐，那是怎样的一项团结的活动
No one in their family has spoken English.	他们家庭里没有人会说英语。
They'll never be able to cope."	他们永远都不可能掌握。"
Now they have started writing their signature.	而现在，他们开始签名了。
It's amazing how much children can teach.	孩子们能教多少都是让人惊喜的。
Ninety-eight percent of our fathers are alcoholics.	孩子的父亲中有98％是酗酒者。
We have about three fathers who have been trained to cook.	我们有三个父亲接受了烹饪的训练
We have taught them nutrition, hygiene.	我们教他们营养学，卫生学。
My accent with English improved a lot.	我的英语口音进步了很多。
And I wouldn't want to go to Bangalore. Let me stay here.	我不想去班加罗尔。让我留在这吧。
And today she wants to be a neurologist.	而现在，她想成为一名神经学者。
Our children are doing brilliantly in sports.	我们的孩子在运动上也发挥出色。
We also believe that it's the content that is more important.	我们同样相信教育的内容更重要。
We didn't hire McKinsey to do a business plan.	我们没有聘请麦肯锡来做商业计划
This is five-year-old Parusharam.	这是5岁的Parusharam
But today I have been transformed.	但是现在，我已经被改变了。
I have been changed with my children.	我随着我的孩子们而改变。
And by profession, he's a psychophysicist.	他的职业，是精神物理学家。
And Howard is very interested in measuring things.	霍华德很热衷于测量事物。
Howard is not so easily placated.	霍华德可不那么容易妥协。
And suddenly, like a bolt of lightning, the answer came to him.	突然间，灵光一现，他找到了答案。
This was his horseradish. He was obsessed with it!	这就是他的辣根菜。他着迷了！
You'd have a plate of spaghetti, and you would pour it on, right?	你拿一盘意粉，然后淋上意粉酱。
It is, in fact, enormously important. I'll explain to you why.	这的确至关重要。我会告诉你原因。
What do you like? Dark, rich, hearty roast!	你喜欢什么？醇厚、浓郁的黑咖啡！
So that's number one thing that Howard did.	这就是霍华德的第一个成就。
A better mustard! A more expensive mustard!	更好的芥末酱！更贵的芥末酱！
They had a notion, a Platonic notion, of what tomato sauce was.	他们有一套做番茄酱的完美方法。
And that's what would please the maximum number of people.	那就是取悦最大多数人的方法。
And for that, we owe him a great vote of thanks.	为此，我们要向他再一次表示感谢。
We also refer to subclinical conditions.	同样的，我们也提到亚临床症状。
You don't have the pustules or the redness and inflammation.	你不会有脓包，红肿或炎症。
Maybe that's because you don't actually have acne.	但这也有可能是因为你并没有粉刺。
We've medicalized everything in this country.	我们医疗化了这个国家的一切。
Strike one is when you hit puberty.	第一次是当你来到青春期。
That's not very good for doctors' business.	这对医生的生意是很不利的噢。
So that's, to me, a way forward.	这就是对于我的一个解决的方法。
It was a fact that he didn't make much of a fuss about, usually.	他通常不把这当多大一回事。
The funny thing is, Dad had a lot of faith in me.	有趣的是，爸爸对我很有信心。
I think these are the four principles that go into this.	我认为这四条原则是关键。
Another one which believes in the pure transparency of content.	还有一种相信内容的纯透明性。
Sequence is a very important aspect of comics.	序列是漫画中重要的一个方面。
This was even before the Web.	这甚至在互联网时代之前。
We could do circular narratives that were literally circular.	我们能做出名符其实的循环故事。
Parallel narratives could be literally parallel.	平行故事可以是名符其实地平行的。
We'll go by this a little quickly -- you get the idea.	我们快进一下，你知道大概意思了。
And that's why I think this is important.	这就是我认为这个话题很重要
One of many reasons, but I've got to go now.	的原因之一。但我该就此打住了。
And it's a charming read.	真是一次令人愉悦的阅读体验
I don't need a husband who wants to be."	我不需要一个想成为上帝的丈夫
And that's when I discovered comedy.	就在这时候，我发现了喜剧
Now let me give you an example from my act.	让我给你们一个我自己的例子
Three things I've tried to avoid my entire life.	这三件事我这辈子都不想做
That's an entire childhood in three words.	整个童年都浓缩在这几个字当中了
People can't wait to pass along that new great joke.	人们迫不及待地传播新的好笑话
And this isn't some new phenomenon of our wired world.	这在现代社会可不是什么新生现象
First there were drums and then knock-knock jokes.	最早是鼓乐然后就是敲门笑话了
So we started talking about climate change.	于是我们开始讨论气候变化
This song is called "Farther than the Sun."	这首歌的名字是"比太阳更遥远"
And it's an essay I read 30 years ago.	那是一篇我30年前读过的文章。
Here is a letter of friendly advice.	这是一封很友好的劝告信。
What it means, of course, is, be solemn.	当然，这意味着要郑重其事起来。
Adults, on the whole, are solemn.	成年人，整体上来说，都是郑重的。
It's filled with the kind of craft laws that come from something being the first of its kind.	它充满了那种原始的工艺法。
You sort of leap up very quickly in your youth.	在你年轻的时候你的飞跃迅速。
I find it's actually getting really hard to be serious.	我发现想严肃起来真的很难。
I really, really, really hated the typeface Helvetica.	我真的，真的，真的非常讨厌字体。
You actually had to go to antique stores. You had to go to Europe.	你得去古董店，你得去欧洲。
This is the case. There are no other cases."	这就是了。没有其他的了。"
This is what theater advertising looked like at that time.	这就是那个时候剧场广告的样子。
This is what was in the newspapers and in the New York Times.	这就是在报纸上和纽约时报上的。
So, this is sort of a comment on the time.	所以说，这算是那时的评论。
I did these things, and I still do them.	我做了这些事，我仍然继续做着。
The institutions are solemn, and so is the design.	机构是很庄重的，设计也是一样。
I'd never done this kind of work before.	我从来没有做过这样的工作。
I just thought they'd be kind of fun to do.	我只是觉得做起来会很好玩儿。
Donors' walls made out of Lucite.	捐赠者的墙用璐彩特制成。
And we did. And it was play.	我们就这么做了。也成功了。
They were pretty serious, too. It was quite wonderful.	他们很严肃。完成的很好。
People wanted it in big, expensive places.	人们希望它在很大型，昂贵的地方。
Every single city of the United States is on here.	美国的每一个城市都在上面。
This is Manhattan, one from the series.	这是曼哈顿，那些系列里的一幅。
And then this funny thing happened.	然后就发生了这件有趣的事。
I found that I was no longer at play.	我发现我不再是在发挥了。
And the professional, historical linguists in the U.S.	这也是一直以来大多数在美国
How many tens of thousands of years does it go back?	这到底是多少万年之前事呢?
So, it's been an honor. Thank you Murray Gell-Mann.	所以非常荣幸。谢谢你穆雷盖尔。
And this might be the kind of seas we're headed for.	这也许就是我们将要面对的海洋。
That's a little diver up there in the corner.	在角落里有个小小的潜水者。
I said, now, that's a true American.	我说，这是条真正的美国鱼。
Molas are infamous for carrying tons of parasites.	翻车鱼以携带成吨的寄生虫而闻名。
I think Donne wrote a poem about that.	我想多恩曾为此写过一首诗。
We'd love to tag in Monterey.	我们喜欢在蒙特利尔放标签。
Not this time of year -- it's more around October.	不是这个时候——在十月左右更多。
Well, not the one we tagged!	呃，不是我们标记的那条！
I'm going to show you our latest dataset.	我要给你们看下最近的数据。
And sure, it may be just one big old silly fish, but it's helping.	这或许是一种古老的，笨笨的鱼，
We can use LEDs.	我们已经有发光二极管了。
Most importantly for this, they're faster.	最重要的是，发光二极管很快。
And the way this happens is through the phenomenon of persistence of vision.	这是利用了视觉停留现象。
These blocks represent LEDs.	这些方块代表二极发光管。
It's an honor to be here. Thanks very much.	今天能登台很荣幸，非常感谢。
You just don't hear that every day.	这真不是每天都能听到的音乐。
Can you? Do you jam? Do you have anything else?	可以吗？有其他的曲子吗？
One day a one-eyed monkey came into the forest.	一天，一只独眼母猴来到森林里。
She was the wife of an even more famous Brahmin.	她的丈夫是个有名的婆罗门。
And the god Indra jumped into the clearing.	然后天神因陀罗跳到空地中。
Indra saw the woman, a Sekhri.	因陀罗看见了刹帝利妇人。
The woman paid him no heed.	那妇人却没注意到因陀罗。
He realized at once what had happened.	他马上就明白过来发生了什么事。
"Just a one-eyed monkey," said the Brahmin.	"只有独眼猴一只"，婆罗门答道。
very confused at what we humans call justice.	为了我们人类所谓的正义而困惑。
In India there is a rape every three minutes.	在印度，每三分钟便有一起强奸。
That's a lot of women who don't get justice.	有很多妇女不想要得到正义。
Look around you, look at your own countries.	看看你的周围，看看你自己国家。
If you're in the U.S., it's mostly the blacks.	如果在美国，则多是黑人。
No. It breaks through those.	没用，艺术将这些统统打破。
For me it came very early.	对我来说，艺术降临很早。
So, what do they do?	那么，他们是怎么做的呢？
And governments have not been able to provide clean water.	政府无力提供干净的水源。
Because there is no profit in it.	因为其中没有利润可以赚取。
But it still needs to get to people.	但是它还是需要传达给人们。
All the germs from the water we take.	我们过滤水中的所有病菌。
All the germs from the water we take.	我们过滤水中的所有病菌。
Five, six, seven, eight folds we make.	五，六，七，我们折叠了八次。
Five, six, seven, eight folds we make.	五，六，七，我们折叠了八次。
And through this we will have clean water.	通过它的过滤，我们喝上了干净水。
Well, here is one such way.	那么，现在就有这么一个办法。
Your grandparents were peaceful people.	你们的祖父母也都是平和的人。
Hello civilization. Hello, 21st century.	你好文明世界。你好二十一世纪。
There are more people being raped. There are more wars.	被强奸的人更多了。战争更多了。
Her father the king said, "Don't whistle."	她的父亲国王说，"不许吹口哨。"
Soon the palace filled with princes whistling.	很快王宫里挤满了吹着口哨的王子。
"Now what shall we do?" said the king.	"现在我们怎么办呢？"国王说。
"Now what shall we do?" said the queen.	"现在我们怎么办呢？"王后说。
And they said, "Me? Defeated by a woman?	王子们说，"我？败给一个女子吗？
So it didn't happen. It was a dream that did not happen.	所以没有上马。成了个梦想。
So, it was sort of the right idea at the right time.	就是正确的时间做的正确主意。
You could do the whole thing with addition.	只用加法运算就可以搞定一切。
So, the programming has to be perfect, or it won't work.	程序必须完美，不然就会运行出错。
That's where I grew up as a kid.	我也是从小在那里长大的。
That's Freeman, a long time ago, and that was me.	这是弗里曼，很早以前了，这是我。
All these forces came together there, in Princeton.	在普林斯顿，各种力量汇集到一起。
Oppenheimer, who had built the bomb.	奥本海默主持原子弹设计的家伙。
They didn't fit in at the Institute.	他们不适合呆在研究院里。
This is hackers getting in trouble for the first time.	这是黑客们第一次遇到麻烦。
And it really was. It was the original microprocessor.	实际上这就是微处理器的原型。
The input and the output was by teletype tape at first.	最早输入输出用的是电传打字带。
This is the archetype of the hard disk that's in your machine now.	这就是你计算机里的硬盘的原型。
This includes a large amount of human error.	这里包含了大量的人为错误。
What's code, what's hardware?	代码的问题，还是硬件的问题。
"Code error, machine not guilty."	"代码错误，机器无罪。"
"And the dawn came." So they ran all night.	"黎明来临了。"他们干了一夜。
So they really were working under tough conditions.	他们的工作条件确实很艰苦。
"I have now duplicated both results.	"现在有了两个不同的运行结果。
How will I know which is right, assuming one result is correct?	我不知道哪一个是正确的？
This now is the third different output.	现在又有了第三个不同的结果。
"We've duplicated errors before."	"我们以前出现过这样的错误。"
"Machine run, fine. Code isn't."	"机器正常，代码错误。"
So, nobody was supposed to know they were actually designing bombs.	应该没人知道他们正在设计核弹。
Even errors were duplicated.	实际上故障也是他弄出来的。
So he designed this universe, and ran it.	所以他设计并运行了这个世界。
It just was another version of the same thing happening.	只是同样发生的事的另一个版本。
And it was his universe on punch cards.	这就是在打孔卡上他的世界。
These cards, now, thanks to me showing up, are being saved.	由于我在场，这些卡片被保存了。
America, you're at the top of your game.	美国，你现在正处于这个问题的极端
Any doctor, any specialist will tell you that.	任何医生，专家都会告诉你
England is right behind you, as usual.	英国照常紧跟在你们后面，
It costs way less than obesity now.	治疗它的耗资比肥胖症少很多
We need it. The time is now.	我们需要它，现在是时候了
Now is the time when it's ripe -- ripe for the picking.	现在时机成熟了，选择的时机成熟了
Huntington, West Virginia.	笑声亨廷顿，西弗吉尼亚州
Stacy, the Edwards family.	Stacy,Edwards一家
Marissa, she's all right, she's one of your lot.	玛丽莎，她还行，她是你们中的一个
He's at the sharp knife-edge of this problem.	他在面对这个问题的刀尖上
Come winter, three times as many people die.	到冬天，死亡的人数是三倍
This is preventable disease. Waste of life.	这是可以预防的疾病。浪费生命
By the way, this is what they get buried in.	顺便，这是埋葬他们的地方
We're not geared up to do this.	我们都没有能够做到这一点
Let's be frank and honest: Well, modern-day life.	让我们坦诚地说吧现代日常生活
Portion size is obviously a massive, massive problem.	份量尺寸显然是一个大大的问题。
Labeling is a massive problem.	标签说明也是一个大的问题。
The labeling in this country is a disgrace.	这个国家的商品标签说明很不光彩
The industry wants to self-police themselves.	业界希望自己做警察监督自己
We don't teach kids about food. Right?	我们不需要教孩子饮食，对吗？
And obviously now that's going to catch on.	鼓掌显然，其他的公司也会跟上来
For me, there ain't no need to flavor the milk.	对我来说，牛奶里不用放糖。
There's our milk. There's our carton.	这是我们的牛奶，这是我们的盒子
This, all this bad news, is preventable.	而所有这些坏消息，是可预防的。
Here is the thing, right, it cannot just come from one source.	事实是答案不可能从一个地方来
How much money do you spend, in your life, in a supermarket?	你在超级市场花了多少钱？
Fast food. With the fast-food industry you know, it's very competitive.	快餐，快餐业你们知道，很有竞争力
I've had loads of secret papers and dealings with fast food restaurants.	我这里有一大堆秘方是快餐店的用的
If you can cook, time doesn't matter.	如果你能做饭，时间也无关紧要
The staff are the moms and dads of America's children.	他们的员工是美国孩子的父母
You know, it's local cooks teaching local people.	你知道，这是本地厨师教本地的人
We are anonymous. We are legion.	我们没有姓名，我们代表着大众
We do not forgive. We do not forget.	我们不会原谅我们不会遗忘
But interestingly, they have a sense of humor.	可有趣的是他们很有幽默感
Put on a black armband, or crack open the champagne?"	是该臂缠黑纱，还是开香槟庆祝？"
There's a strong whiff of half-baked anarchism about them.	他们大力鼓吹还不成熟的无政府主义
Now this is a very complicated struggle.	如今这是个非常复杂的斗争
Because it's a U.N. operation, of course, it lacks funding.	因为联合国的项目当然，就缺乏资金
And after that, it just went wild.	从那之后，网络犯罪变的肆无忌惮
But that's a slightly different story, which I won't go into now.	现在形势不同了我不会去做了
He was out there on the town having a fab time enjoying the high life.	他在一个镇上享受着高质量生活
One of the smartest people I've ever met.	我所见过的最聪明的人之一
They're just relentless and obsessive about what they do.	只是对于所作的事情已经无法自拔
They're the other big generation.	他们是另一个人较多的一代．
It no longer just makes sense.	只修路面停车场已经不再合适了．
But some of them have been much more incremental.	这些地区有些在这一过程中升值了．
So, you know, sometimes it's incremental.	所以有时候，它是逐渐改变的．
Here was the mall in its heyday.	这是这个商场在它最繁华的时期．
So here it is at projected build-out.	所以，这里是计划中的样子．
Here's what the new Main Street looks like.	这是新的主要街道的样子．
You want to also try to get more systemic transformation.	还需要一些更系统化的运输工具．
We need to also retrofit the corridors themselves.	我们也需要重新改建走廊本身．
Women go days, weeks, months, without looking at it.	女人们甚至长时间不曾观察过它。
OK, at first women were a little shy, a little reluctant to talk.	开始时她们都有些害羞，不愿多谈。
Mainly because no one's ever asked them before.	她们以前不谈主要因为没人问过。
Let's just start with the word "vagina" -- vagina, vagina.	我们先来谈这个词——阴道，阴道。
You need to air out your pussy-cat."	你得让你的小猫咪透透气。"
And that's where the deepest happiness has actually come from.	而这正是最深层次的幸福所在。
And within five years, this extraordinary thing began to happen.	五年内，这不可思议的改变逐渐发生
They're like the Mercedes-Benz of the Rift Valley.	他们就相当于大裂谷的奔驰车。
So, how do I explain this mysterious affinity?	怎样解释这种神奇的联系？
He built one plant after another.	他开了一家又一家的工厂。
But Mr. Teszler answered, "No, that will not be necessary.	特兹勒说，"完全不需要，
He will not steal from us again."	因为他以后都不会再偷窃了。"
And afterwards we convened at the President's House with Dr. Robicsek on one hand, Mr. Milliken on the other.	我们三人就在校长办公室汇合了。
If they didn't like each other, we could all get trampled to death.	如果他们合不来的话，我必死无疑。
But they did, they did like each other.	但是他们没有，他们互相喜欢。
As it does, I suspect, that of everybody here.	我想在座的各位都是这样的。
This is our task; we know it will be hard.	这就是我们的任务，虽然非常艰巨。
He said, "You boneless bookworm!	他说，"你这个书呆子！"
It's a fucking orgy!"	他说，"这是他妈的纵酒狂欢！"
There was an important lesson for me in that.	通过这件事我学到了重要的理念。
It wasn't just your standard installation.	它并不只是标准化的策展。
They know what they're looking for.	他们明确自己在寻找什么。
Wow. She is a gorgeous embodiment of youthful sexuality.	哇哦。她是年轻性感的华丽化身。
So our patients are women and children.	所以我们的病人都是妇女和儿童。
It's our home. We welcome them.	这是我们的家，我们很欢迎他们。
Would you explain the rules for admission?	你可以解释一下进入诊所的规定吗？
[Whomever] makes those things we throw out.	谁要是搞这些东西，就把他轰出去。
We are not just the helpless and the victims of the civil war.	我们不是弱者也不是内战的受害者。
I loved it, but it didn't work.	我非常喜欢，但是这样是不行的。
She's here. She's also a doctor.	她也在这里，她也是一名医生。
I succeeded in my place.	我在我的本职上获得了成功。
And I'm thankful for my daughters.	我非常感谢我的两位女儿，
She always expects us to do more.	她总是希望我们做的更多。
And hell is down here? Is it a cultural issue?	而地狱在下？这是一个文化问题吗？
I'm going to make it right now in case I forget.	我打算现在就解释，以免忘了。
Most of the southern hemisphere is unexplored.	南半球大多数地方尚未勘探。
You know, it's just ludicrous.	你知道，这简直是荒谬的。
We are always, constantly playing the zero sum game.	我们总是在不断地玩着零和游戏。
I believe in just enriching the economy.	我相信，经济就要充实起来。
I dove in a whole series of different deep diving submersibles.	我潜过全部不同的深潜器。
The mid-ocean ridge runs around like the seam on a baseball.	大洋中脊就像环绕在棒球上的接缝。
We went down into the Rift Valley.	我们潜到海底进入大裂谷，
And it's then being ripped open.	但那时，它正在被撕裂开。
We went up to them with our submersible.	我们乘潜艇到达这些烟囱上，
We did not know about this life system.	我们不知道这个生命系统。
So, we wanted to accelerate this process.	所以我们想要加快这个过程。
And the hydrothermal vents were in an acidic environment.	而热泉就处于一种酸性的环境。
Again, you know, we stop at the water's edge.	当然，我们又在水边停下来。
You're looking at brine pools formed by salt diapirs.	你看着刺穿盐丘形成的卤水池。
Near that was methane. I've never seen volcanoes of methane.	附近是甲烷。我从未见过甲烷火山。
It said Yorktown on the stern.	据说约克城号是船头朝上的。
This shipwreck sank 100 years before the birth of Christ.	这艘遇难船沉没于公元前100年。
More recently, into the Black Sea, where we're exploring.	我们最近进入了黑海探险。
Fortunately, we've been able to convince Congress.	幸运的是，我们说服了国会。
We can then build a command center.	然后我们就可以建立一个指挥中心。
This is a remote center at the University of Washington.	这是设在华盛顿大学的远程中心。
We need to be proud of our middle schools.	我们还应该为我们的中学骄傲。
And when you get a jaw drop, you can inform.	在吃惊的同时，她也会学到很多。
This makes education unaffordable for many people.	这使得很多人无法负担教育费用
I've talked about what's desperately necessary.	我已经说了什么是急切需要的了
We get unbelievable segregation.	我们有不可置信的种族分离
But it's not just about the numbers, it's also about the people.	不过这不仅跟数字有关还跟人有关
What made it different was that this was real course experience.	但不同的是这些都是真正的上课体验
There's been a range of studies that demonstrate the importance of this.	有很多研究表明这一方面的重要性,
Here, every single student has to engage with the material.	在这,每个学生必须与材料接洽
And of course these simple retrieval questions are not the end of the story.	当然不光是这些回顾性的小问题
The answer is, you need to use technology to do it for you.	答案是,你得使用科技来帮助你
So we had to come up with a different solution.	因此我们必须想出另外一个办法
And the solution we ended up using is peer grading.	最后的解决方案是学生之间互批
Well, Mark Twain certainly thought so.	嗯,马克吐温显然这么想,
I beg to differ with Mark Twain, though.	不过我真不敢与马克吐温苟同
Second, it would enable lifelong learning.	第二,这会使终生学习成为可能
I didn't know I was a narcissist actually.	我原本并不知道自己是一个自恋狂。
I thought narcissism meant you loved yourself.	我认为自恋狂意味着你爱你自己。
I don't feel I can afford a relapse.	我大概无法承受旧病复发。
Buying it from us screams good taste."	购买我们的手表突显卓越的品味。"
"Don't use big words."	"不要使用空洞夸张的词汇。"
"Learn the lingua franca."	"学习大家都会的通用语言。"
But I don't engage in serious arguments.	而我不喜欢正儿八经的辩论。
The head is good, body bad.	头脑是好的，身体是不好的。
I don't know how many of you have read it.	我不知道你们中的多少人读过，
And I'm not an expert on sadomasochism.	而我可不是一个虐恋的专家
It's like finding out your nanny is a dominatrix.	这就好像发现你的外婆是个施虐狂。
And the object is the passive no-voice.	而客观是那个被动的沉默者
I was so fascinated by that Oxygen commercial.	我真的被那个氧气的广告迷住了。
They don't even wait for the rest of it.	他们甚至都不听完剩下的半句话。
What's funny about being down to four houses?	同时被四个法院判罪有意思吗？
And the book is called "The Garden of Priapus."	书名叫"普里阿普斯的花园"。
And so I wanted something that was more interactive.	我想要有一种更多互动的方式。
I used to actually hang up on them.	事实上，我以前总挂他们电话。
Trickster is a change agent.	变戏法的人是转变的动因。
And one of these is boundary crossing.	而其中一种就是跨越界限。
I'm able to see the contradiction that you may not be able to see.	我能看到的矛盾，未必你也能看到。
"No, you take the prize.	"不不，你把奖杯拿走吧。
You're young. I'm old. Who's going to see it?	你还年轻，我老了，谁还会看到啊？
Where am I going? I'm going to die soon."	而我呢？我很快就要死了"
And another is, non-oppositional strategies.	而另外一个是，不对立策略
There the alternative just boggles the imagination.	另外的情况都让人胆战心惊。
Huh? Huh? What? Can't hear you."	啊？啊？什么？我听不见啦。"
I just wanted to put the scientists in their place.	我只是把科学家放到他们的位置上。
Like the, what do you call those toes of the gecko?	就像，你们把壁虎的脚趾叫什么？
And the other one though is impenetrability.	另一特性就是"不可渗透性"。
And now we're being penetrated.	而现在我们反而被"渗透"了。
You know we're being penetrated.	你知道我们被他们入侵了。
Yes of course you got that. Thank you very much.	当然你们明白了，非常感谢你们！
And the mother goes right through a red light.	她妈妈完全无视红灯，冲了过去
And the mother says, "Oh! Am I driving?"	那个妈妈说，"噢！我在开车吗？"
And it is always extraordinary to see a thing of beauty.	能看到美的东西总是很棒的。
And that's what I want to talk about today.	这也是我今天所要讲的内容。
Ah, you laugh, you fools.	啊，你们笑吧，你们这些笨蛋。
And they get to prioritize, you know?	你知道项目也有优先顺序的吧？
This is one of the things they ought to be thinking more about.	这事他们需要考虑的事情之一。
We shut one down that was going to be big.	我们关闭了一个逐渐扩大的实验。
We've got the fox watching the henhouse here.	我们已经在监控着实验进展。
It's not hard: it's just three oxygen atoms.	这并不难——只是臭氧而已。
This is rocket science, but it's not hard rocket science.	这是火箭科学，却不难懂。
The problem is it takes 300 years to terraform Mars, minimum.	问题是改造火星至少需要300年。
That won't work too well. What can we do about this?	这样就不妙了。我们该怎么做呢？
I don't have a good answer for this one.	因为对此问题我没有个好的答案。
There's also something a little farther out, called the Oort cloud.	稍远之处被称作奥尔特云。
Andrew, can you put that chart up?	安德鲁，能否帮我打开图表？
Now look at the one right below that.	让我们看看正下方的数据。
And they're trying to do that.	这就是他们正在尝试计算的事。
But we would have lots of time, if we see it coming.	但如果有来我们也仍有大量时间。
I know your head is spinning from all this stuff.	我知道你们已经听的头昏脑胀了，
Yikes! So many big threats!	哎呀！竟然有这么多的威胁！
We don't want to get caught flat-footed again.	我们不想再毫无准备惊慌失措了。
He stands there, and he looks across at the island, Sado.	他矗立在那里环视着佐渡岛
And toward the end, he said, "If you would know the pine tree, go to the pine tree."	临终前，他说"欲知松先问松"
So what scientists do when they begin is to start with the system.	科学家们首先从这个系统开始
They interact with one another constantly.	它们彼此之间持续相互作用
All of them interact with one another.	每一个对象都在和其他对象相互作用
I'm going to layer in on top of this the tectonic plates.	我要在上面放上一张地壳板块的图
They are changing rapidly, but not predictably.	它们瞬息万变，又不可预测
You can see the copper tips on these things.	你可以看到上面的铜接线端子
They will bring it and link it in.	他们将使它运行起来并连接到系统中
Now I want to take you into the caldera.	现在，我要带你们去火山口
So what can we actually do tomorrow?	那明天我们又要做些什么呢
And we will be bringing robotics of all sorts into the ocean.	我们将要将机器人技术全面引入海洋
There are many kinds of things that can be used in the ocean, continuously.	海里有很多东西都能持续使用
The power generation will come from the ocean itself.	供给的电能则来自于海洋自己
And the next generation fiber will be simply magic.	在下一个时代，光纤将变得奇妙无比
What are the troops? The troops are the autonomous vehicles, of course.	什么部队？当然是无人驾驶工具了
This is doable. All the pieces are there.	这完全可行。所有的步骤很清晰
It won't be long. It won't be long.	这不会很久了，不会很久了
He won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1948.	他在1948年获得了诺贝尔文学奖
We can think them out. We can create incredible things.	我们创造了这些神奇的事物
And yet, at the end, it's so hard to change a wall.	但最终连改变一道墙都是这么困难。
We applaud the well-mannered box.	我们赞同这些一板一眼的盒子
Architecture is not based on concrete and steel and the elements of the soil.	建筑不是建立在水泥钢铁，和泥土
By the way, it is a story that is told through its hard materials.	建筑是一个借着实体来诉说的故事
These are the dimensions that I like to work with.	我期待能在这些概念范围下创作
And I therefore believe that optimism is what drives architecture forward.	我认为乐观是建筑的推进力
It's the only profession where you have to believe in the future.	建筑是唯一需要相信未来的专业
But architecture is that complete ecstasy that the future can be better.	但建筑师应该狂喜地期盼着美好未来
And it is that belief that I think drives society.	我相信这就是社会进步的原因
And today we have a kind of evangelical pessimism all around us.	今日我们被悲观的说法包围
Think of the Empire State Building, the Rockefeller Center.	想想帝国大厦、或是洛克菲勒中心
I don't like neutrality in life, in anything.	我不喜欢在人生，或任何事情中中立
And it's like espresso coffee, you know, you take the essence of the coffee.	就像蒸馏咖啡，它汲取咖啡的精髓
Expressive spaces may disturb us.	表现空间可能会让我们不安
And I think that's also part of life.	但我认为那也是生命中的一部分
And I think that is what architecture is, it's radical.	我认为这就是建筑的意义，激进
You know the Soviet architecture of that building is the conservation.	你们都见过苏联的建筑那就是传统
And I think our architecture is a confrontation with our own senses.	建筑便是以我们的知觉去面对
Therefore I believe it should not be cool.	所以我认为它不该是冷酷的
There is a lot of appreciation for the kind of cool architecture.	许多人喜欢那种冷酷的建筑
I've always been an opponent of it. I think emotion is needed.	我总是反对。我认为情绪是必须的
Even the mind is emotional.	甚至我们的思想都是情绪化的
And I think that is what makes the world a wondrous place.	我认为着也是世界神奇的地方
Of course, what would we be without computers?	当然，今日谁能不用电子计算机呢？
Our whole practice depends on computing.	我们依赖电子计算机来实践许多想法
I think that's part of what the complexity of architecture is.	我想这也是建筑复杂的一部分
It is complex. Space is complex.	世界是复杂的。空间是复杂的。
Space is something that folds out of itself into completely new worlds.	空间将自己摺叠成一个新世界
The politeama is the city. It's all of us together.	政治是城市，是我们所有人
And we live in a world which is connecting us more and more.	住在一个彼此越来越有关联的世界
You know we can simulate almost anything.	今日我们几乎可以模拟所有东西
What is a habit? It's just a shackle for ourselves.	习惯是什么？不过是一个束缚
So I believe that my main interest is to memory.	我相信我最大的兴趣便是记忆
Without memory we would be amnesiacs.	没有记忆我们就成了失忆者
Critics like the performance to be repeated again and again the same way.	评论家总是喜欢那些一再重复的演出
So again, memory is the city, memory is the world.	记忆组成城市，记忆组成世界
Without the memory there would be no story to tell.	没有记忆，也就没有值得诉说的故事
World without risk would not be worth living.	没有冒险的世界是不值得活的
And of course that is finally what I believe architecture to be.	这就是我所相信的，建筑的意义。
And there of course is the space that we need to breathe, is the space we need to dream.	我们在那里可以呼吸可以梦想
So again, it's not about the changing fashions, changing theories.	这无关时尚、或是改变理论
So democracy, as difficult as it is, I believe in it.	虽然民主并不容易，我仍然支持它。
And of course, at Ground Zero what else?	911的归零地是一个很好的地标
It's political. There is so many parties to this project.	它也很政治。许多人参与这个计划。
I think nothing good will come out of that.	我不认为这样能产出优秀的作品
And yet, compromise, consensus, that is what I believe in.	但，妥协，共识是我的信念
I'm a Himba and Namibian.	我是辛巴族人，也是纳米比亚人。
A Himba is one of the 29 ethnic groups in Namibia.	辛巴族是纳米比亚29个民族之一。
And one day, my father actually took me into the bush.	有一天，我父亲带我去丛林。
"And he will let go of the goat and run off."	"它就会放了山羊然后跑掉。"
We lived under apartheid regime.	曾经生活在种族隔离体制下，
And as a result, we were fined and locked up in jail.	结果，我们被罚款还被关进监牢。
And you know, during war time, there are militaries, armies, that are moving around.	在战争时期，到处都是军队和军人。
It killed almost everything that was left.	几乎所有剩下的生物都死亡了。
They can pinpoint the exact location where this all happened.	可以准确指出惨剧发生的确切地点。
And then, in the same year, we almost lost everything.	在同一年，我们几乎失去了一切。
"Yes. Our poachers."	"是的。我们的偷猎手。"
My father has been a poacher for quite a long time.	我父亲当偷猎手很长时间了，
The other partners that we have got is business communities.	其他合作伙伴是商业组织。
The who and the why are what's important to me.	谁以及其原因对我来说是最重要的。
I want to know the people behind my dinner choices.	我想知道在我们餐桌背后的那些人。
I want to know how they impact me.	我想知道他们如何影响我。
I want to know why they fish.	我想知道他们为什么捕鱼。
But what if we eat only in the green list?	但是如果我们仅仅食用绿色类的呢？
Do I do this three times a week?	是否我每个星期都这样食用三次呢？
Well folks, we have a protein problem.	朋友们，我们有一个蛋白质问题。
The problem is we are hiding that cost beneath the waves.	问题是我们在隐藏那些代价。
Sylvia likes to say that blue is the new green.	西尔维娅喜欢说蓝色是新的绿色。
So let's start there.	所以，让我们从晚餐开始。
It's about the way that we look at our plates.	这是如何看待地球的方式。
A couple things happened.	一系列的事情接而发生了。
This is what the green list says.	这才是那些绿色类品种告诉我们的。
Start with a 16-ounce portion of big fish.	从一个十六盎司分量的大鱼开始。
Celebrate the opportunity you have to eat this.	庆祝你能有幸吃到这样的美味。
I expect health and joy and family and community.	我期待健康愉快以及家庭和社区。
I remember well the meals of my childhood.	我清晰地记得童年时的每一餐。
This is still how I largely eat today.	直到今天我基本上还是这样的饮食。
I get sick when I go to steakhouses.	我去牛排店会觉得很不舒服。
So what are we looking for in a meal?	那么我们究竟向每一餐索取什么呢？
For community though, we start at the very beginning.	考虑到社区，我从零开始。
We need to savor smaller portions of seafood.	我们需要品尝小份量的海味。
These first images are from Greenland.	第一批影像来自于格陵兰岛。
Is it getting hotter or is it getting colder?	不管天气变热了还是变冷了。
There is no significant scientific dispute about that.	科学上对此没有任何的异议。
And that led me to this project.	然后我被引到了这个项目上。
Actually, there's still a camera out there right now.	其实，现在在那儿还有一台摄相机。
In any case, the cameras shoot roughly every hour.	任何情况下，相机大概每一个小时，
There's a lot of people working on this right now.	此时有很多人在这个项目上工作。
We've got 33 cameras out this moment.	此刻我们有33台摄相机在外面。
That's only half our job.	那也只是我们一半的工作。
You can see that from the orange line and the blue line.	你可以从橙色和蓝色线中看出来。
It's been a remorseless, steady increase.	它一直在无情地，持续地增加。
This is a view of what's called the calving face.	这是一个叫做冰解面的景象。
And so, there are features on this landscape.	因此这种地貌上的一些特征。
This camera was shooting every hour.	这个摄相机每小时拍一次。
Finally catches up to itself, it advances.	终于它恢复过来，向前扩张。
That's what you see with these cameras.	这是你通过这些镜头可以看到的。
These great ice islands break off -- and now watch this.	这些大冰岛脱离了--现在来看这个
You can see this river being formed.	你可以看到正在形成的河流，
The smaller the ice mass, the faster it responds to climate.	冰的密度越小，对气候的反应越快。
And there's been a tremendous increase in the temperature up there.	而且在那儿有很大的温度提升。
It's a big place. That's all ice.	它是一个辽阔的地方。到处是冰。
I'll show you one of those in a second.	很快我会向你们展示到其中的一个。
This is what a couple of the cameras saw.	这是其中几台摄相机看到的。
Huge icebergs rolling over.	很大，很大的冰山正在滚下来。
You're an elite audience. You get it.	你们是精英观众群。你们认识到了。
But we still need to bring a lot of people along with us.	但是我们还需要团结更多人。
Because I believe we have an opportunity right now.	因为我相信当下我们有一个机会。
You must have gotten your education here."	您一定是在这里上的学吧？"
Process innovation is different from product innovation.	过程创新和产品创新是不一样的
You can't be a professor without having been a student.	要当教授就要先做一回学生
You can't be a consultant without having been a research associate.	要当咨询师就必须有当研究员的经历
India has the youngest growing population in the world.	印度拥有全球最年轻的人口
After 10 years of working overseas, I was exhausted.	10年的海外工作令我身心疲惫。
And I wanted to come home and take a break and maybe start over.	我很想回家歇歇也许重新开始。
How many of you have such a situation?	你们中多少人家里是这种情况？
And there's special workers for doing that.	我们有专业人员来做这个工作。
The sun was out. Everybody was happy.	太阳出来了。每个人都很高兴。
And there's whole industries designed for managing bad people.	社会上已经有了管理坏人的方案。
You must be doing something right."	你一定是做了正确的事！"
Trauma centers and hospitals are doing their part in stepping up.	创伤中心和医院也在不断跟进。
This is a recent cover of New York Magazine.	这是纽约杂志最近的封面。
It means something like you are awake at the worst possible hour.	它意味着你在最糟糕的时辰醒来。
Could it be there is something more going on here?	是不是其中还有什么奥妙？
Coincidence? No, it's creepy.	巧合？不，那是"鬼异"。
Herbert Powell: Sure, that's what he's paid for.	是，他收了钱就要会办妥事。
Now do you need towels, laundry, maids?	你需要浴巾，洗衣和女佣吗？
Parse it cover to cover for whatever hidden references you want.	你可以从头到尾地找你想找的暗示，
And these forces act on, attract, bodies that have an electrical charge.	这些力能吸引和作用于带电荷的物体
The best way to visualize an electric field is to think of gravity.	最直观的理解方法是类比重力
We can all picture astronauts in space.	我们来想象一下太空中的宇航员
We're, of course, all stuck in the Earth's gravitational field right now.	当然我们现在正困在地球的重力场里
And we can see them dividing throughout.	我们从从头至尾看到分裂过程
GBM affects about 10,000 people in the U.S. each year.	在美国每年有将近一万人受此病折磨
The expected five year survival is less than five percent.	不足百分之五的患者能够存活到五年
So I'm going to show you now one of the patients from this trial.	所以我将展示一位来自此试验的病人
You can see that the black regions in the upper right quadrant are the areas where he had surgery.	右上角的黑色区域就是手术的部位
And here we can see him getting the therapy.	这里我们可以看到他在接受治疗
This is a therapy that takes time to work.	这个治疗得花上不少时间才能起效
It's a medical device; it works when it's on.	这是个医疗设备打开时才工作
Lydia's a 66 year-old farmer in Switzerland.	莉迪雅是名66岁的农妇住在瑞士
Now she can run all of the activities of her farm.	现在她能自己从事农场的所有活计
And in most parts it is saline, not fit for drinking.	并且绝大多数是盐湖，不适合饮用。
So, welcome to the Golden Desert.	欢迎大家来到金色的沙漠。
There are a number of techniques to harvest rain.	这里有许多用来接收雨水的技术。
And they harvest rain in many ways.	并且他们通过很多途径获得雨水。
And this is all big raised platform.	这是一个高高凸起的平台，
And people made their house, and the water storage tanks.	人们建造自己的房子和储水槽。
These raised up platforms just like this stage.	这些凸起的平台就像这个舞台。
You can see person coming up with two canisters of water.	你看到的这个人提着两桶水。
Jaisalmer. This is heart of desert.	斋沙默尔，这里是沙漠的中心，
So, this was the terminal point for silk route.	所以这里是丝绸之路的终点。
And this is the 16 centimeter area.	这就是只有16厘米降雨量的地方。
You won't find water in this slide.	虽然你在这个幻灯片里看不到水，
Somewhere a stream or a rivulet is running through here.	某处的小河或小溪会流经于此。
And it's a kind of water body for all seasons.	它是一种适合任何季节的贮水池。
Another small water body, called the [unclear].	另一个小贮水池叫做[印度语]，
And perhaps they knew the future also.	或许他们早知道将来也会是这样。
It was designed some 150 years ago.	这个贮水池已有150多年的历史。
It squeeze the moisture hidden in the sand.	它榨取的是沙子里暗藏的水分。
And they have dubbed this water as the third one called [unclear].	他们把这种水称作[印度语]。
This is the same dry water body.	这也是一个干涸的贮水池，
This year they have received only six centimeters.	今年他们只收到了六厘米，
Another pillar, stone pillar on your right side.	另一个柱子，在你右侧的石柱。
Excuse me, who built these structures?	抱歉，请问是谁建造的这些建筑物？
This tire comes from the airplane.	这个轮胎原本是一个飞机部件。
They were using it on their body.	过去被用在人们的身体上。
And these are the flowers which add fragrance to our lives.	还有这些带给我们生活芬芳的花朵。
So, this is the message of desert.	所以这就是沙漠的主题思想。
Thank you so much.	克里斯•安德森:非常感谢。
Politics gets weaker when debt is high.	政治会因债务过高而变得软弱。
And it's not just the public sector which is looking so good.	不仅仅是公共部门前景看好，
Africa produces 10 million barrels a day of oil now.	非洲每天生产一千万桶的原油，
It's the same as Saudi Arabia or Russia.	与沙特阿拉伯和俄罗斯相当。
And they're investing in telecoms, shopping malls.	他们在投资通信，购物中心。
You look at South Asia, and people are.	你会想到南亚，确实人们在这么做。
So what's Africa looking like today?	那么非洲现在是什么样子呢？
And I'm showing you something else with these maps.	我用这些地图给大家展示些其他的。
And what you've got is a reinforcing positive circle going on.	因此你就会有一个持续的良性循环。
So democracy is encouraging governments to invest in education.	因此民主鼓励政府投资教育。
It's a positive, virtuous circle.	这就是一个积极的良性的循环。
Three out of 10. That's not good.	10个人里有3个人。这不乐观。
Every poor country is corrupt.	每个贫穷国家都受腐败之苦。
You see the middle class grow.	大家看到中产阶级的发展壮大。
Now, I don't want to be an apologist for corruption.	我不想做为腐败开脱的人。
Economists aren't great at forecasting.	经济学家对预测未来并不很在行。
People got poorer in Africa in the 1990s.	非洲人在1990年代变得更穷了。
India is one of those examples.	印度就是其中的一个例子。
Now that's bigger than Europe and America put together in today's money.	那比今天欧洲和美国的总和还要多。
"Charlie, why are you so pessimistic?"	"查理，你为什么这么悲观呢？"
Actually, I think they've got a point.	实际上，我认为他们是对的。
Because technology does let you help.	因为科技让你有能力帮助。
You can go and buy some of the great tunes.	你可以购买一些非常棒的音乐。
Go on holiday and see for yourself the change that's happening.	去非洲度假，亲眼看看那里的变化。
But this is rarely a good sign. Right?	这从来都不是什么好迹象，对吧？
And they are building what I call the Spinternet.	而他们所构建的正是"贴金网"。
Why are they engaging with cyberspace?	他们干嘛要管网络空间的事情？
You put it on the front page of your blog.	你们把它放到你博客的首页上，
Well, great. You are the one who is to blame."	不错。那就拿你当替罪羊吧。"
Now it's all available online.	现在这些资料在网上随手可得。
That's not an option being considered too strongly.	但很多人却对这种想法不屑一顾。
So what should we do about it?	对此，我们应该做些什么呢？
Daddy's got you. That's all that's important.	有爸爸在你身边爱护你是很重要的。
He was a troubled kid.	他也是个制造麻烦的青年。
They called me Anthony growing up as a kid.	我孩童时，他们都叫我安东尼。
"Hey Anthony, come on upstairs."	"嗨，安东尼，上楼来"。
Now I immediately knew what he meant.	我当时立马知道他的意图。
We don't talk about that as men.	做个男性，我们从来不会谈这些事。
The other thing I couldn't tell him is that I didn't want any.	我没有告诉他的事是我啥都不想要。
That's even worse. We're supposed to always be on the prowl.	那会更糟糕。我们总是处于徘徊中。
So he was offering me the opportunity to do the same.	所以他让我也好有机会做同样的事。
But I knew I felt bad about what was happening.	但我知道发生这种事太糟糕了。
Is it nuclear capacity? We know we have that.	还是核能力？我们知道我们有。
The Americans have even recognized it, in an agreement.	美国人已意识到这一点，在协议中。
I think you've already heard the figures.	我想你们已经听到过这些数字。
We've been selling 15 million cellphones a month.	我们每个月销售1500万部手机。
But sometimes it just sat there.	但是，有时只是坐在那里。
I went to high school in Calcutta.	我高中是在加尔各答上的。
She's illiterate, so she can't read the French subtitles.	她是文盲，因此她看不懂法文字幕。
And this is happening more and more.	这种例子发生的越来越多。
India doesn't have a military mission there.	印度在哪儿没有军事任务。
Every Afghan family wanted to watch it.	每一个阿富汗家庭都想看。
So the empire can strike back.	因此，帝国还可以反击吗。
But, there is something more substantive to that.	但是，还有更实质性的东西。
All the others have been all those three.	他们这些人都包含那三点。
Governments aren't very good at telling stories.	各国政府并不擅长讲故事。
The Limpopo sun gets really hot in winter.	Limpopo的冬天阳光宜人。
Now we need to get this thing into practice.	现在要做的就是把它变成现实。
Actually our body doesn't hate these.	实际上我们的身体并不痛恨它们。
And I said, why don't you use that?	那么我说，为什么不利用它呢？
Our antibiotics are running out.	我们的抗生素正在被用尽。
And they didn't die because they didn't have anthrax anymore.	因为它们不再有任何炭疽杆菌了。
So we did it. Okay?	所以说，我们成功了。对吧？
This is Sea-Monkeys.	就是一种叫"海猴"的虾。
Well, I wasn't so interested in the swimming.	我并不是对游泳特别感兴趣。
That's over 50 percent.	这个比例在百分之五十以上。
But, of course, she was also extremely cold.	但是，当然，她体温也十分低。
Well, we had a lot of them.	是的，我们遭遇了很多失败。
It's filled with this toxic gas, hydrogen sulfide.	洞里充满了硫化氢这种有毒气体。
The highest concentration is in our brains.	浓度最高的地方是我们的大脑。
So, I thought, "Wow, I have to get some of this."	所以，我想，哇，我要来点这东西。
I mean, who knows?	我是说，这事儿谁也拿不准。
So, I want to say that we're in human trials.	我要说的是，我们在进行人体试验。
But Darwin shows that it's just false.	可达尔文证明，那是错误的。
There's nothing intrinsically sweet about honey.	蜂蜜内在没有任何所谓的甜。
That would be one way of doing it, but there's a quicker way.	这也许是个办法，但还有一招更快。
It wasn't designed for chocolate cake.	那不是针对巧克力蛋糕而设计的。
Chocolate cake is a supernormal stimulus.	巧克力蛋糕是一个超常刺激。
There's lots of supernormal stimuli for sexiness.	有很多对于性感的超常刺激。
So nature works on many levels here.	可见自然在不同的层次上起着作用。
This is the strange inversion.	这是一个奇怪的"反向逻辑"
We are talking about the cradle of democracy.	我们谈到的是民主的摇篮；
Alexandria, much older than Egypt.	亚历山大港，比埃及更不朽；
Rome, far older than Italy.	罗马，远比意大利经久不衰。
I say we are an urban animal.	而我说，我们是城市性动物。
We are an urban species, at home in our cities.	我们是以城市为栖息地的物种。
They were arguing with one another about access to the holy sites.	对圣地麦加的朝圣问题争论不休。
Or Putin. Or any national leader.	或者普金，或者任何国家领导人。
They work together in climate change, for example.	她们合作对抗气候变化问题，
So where does that leave us?	那我们处于一个何等的境地？
We can create a global parliament of mayors.	我们可以创立全球市长议会。
And the only question is, are you?	唯一的问题是，你准备好了吗？
Thank you so much, my fellow citizens.	谢谢，各位市民的聆听与关注。
And in fact, we're going to do that exercise right now.	事实上，我们就要来做那个练习。
You all have a piece of cardboard and a piece of paper.	你们都有一片纸板和一张纸。
It's actually got a bunch of circles on it.	它有着一堆的圆圈在上面。
So, everybody ready? OK. Off you go.	都预备好了吗？好了？开始。
Yes, lot's of laughter. Yeah, exactly.	是呀，很多笑声。就是这样。
Maybe have the same kind of security to play.	也许有敢去游戏的安全感。
He knew that friendship is a short cut to play.	他知道，友谊是游戏的关键。
And I'm going to run a little experiment. Another little experiment.	我要来个小实验。另一个小实验。
But before we start, I need just to put these on.	但是开始前，我要戴上这个。
So, don't look backwards. That's my only recommendation here.	不要回头看。这是我唯一的建议。
I have another idea. I wanted to -- there we go.	我有另一个想法。我要－来吧。
Not bad, not bad. No serious injuries so far.	不错、不错。还没有严重伤害。
We use it in a pretty pragmatic way, to be honest.	我们用它在实用上，老实说。
And there's a reason for that: we want to settle on an answer.	这是有道理的。我们想找个解答。
Or is it just some weird shadows on the tree?	或者只是树上的一些怪影？
Most of us don't need to anymore, I suppose.	我猜，我们大部分都不必再做。
Kids are more engaged with open possibilities.	小孩更愿意接受开放的可能性。
Any parents of young kids in the audience? There must be some.	观众中有人有小孩吗？一定是有的。
So, everybody ready? OK? Off you go.	准备好了吗？好吗？开始。
No? Oh! Somebody did. Fantastic.	没有？喔！有人做到了。好极了。
Did anybody to a variation on a theme? Like a smiley face?	有人用同一主题去变化吗？如笑脸？
Happy face? Sad face? Sleepy face? Anybody do that?	快乐脸？悲伤脸？瞌睡脸？有人吗？
Anybody use my examples? The sun and the football?	有人用我的例子吗？太阳、足球？
Great. Cool. So I was really interested in quantity.	很好。酷。我要的是数量。
I just wanted you to fill in as many circles as possible.	我只是要你们尽量使用圆圈。
And one of the things we tend to do as adults, again, is we edit things.	大人的另一个倾向，会去编辑东西。
So it was a pretty successful evening.	因此，这是个蛮成功的夜晚。
I mean, can you have rules about creativity?	我是说，创造力可以有规则吗？
They were exploring following what was interesting to them.	他们循着他们的兴趣探索。
And building is the next of the behaviors that I thought I'd talk about.	｢建造｣是我要谈的另一个行为。
So, they learned their way to that by building prototypes.	因此他们以建造模型找到那个解答。
But what about designing something that isn't physical?	但如果要设计非实体的事物呢？
Something that exists as a series of interactions over time?	时间上的一系列互动之类的?
Instead of building play, this can be approached with role-play.	不是建造游戏，这时要用角色扮演。
They can be a little skeptical; I'll come back to that.	他们有点怀疑，等下我再说。
Now, this is a real hospital, in a real emergency room.	这可是真的医院，在真的急诊室。
We're doing the same thing as designers.	身为设计师我们做相同的事。
In short, we admire their willingness to play.	简言之，我们羡慕他们愿意去扮演。
The first thing to remember is that play is not anarchy.	首先记住游戏不是乱无章法的。
Play has rules, especially when it's group play.	游戏有规则，尤其是团体游戏。
Kids don't play all the time, obviously.	显然，孩子们不是一直在玩。
It's not an either/or; it's an "and."	那不是二择一，而是兼有。
Why do so many people reach success and then fail?	为什么有这么多人在成功以后失败？
I can just sit back and relax."	现在我可以坐着休息了。"
Reaching success, I was pretty good at coming up with good ideas.	为了成功，我总是有很多好的创意。
Because I did all these simple things that led to ideas.	因为我做了这些让我达到成功的事。
I couldn't come up with any ideas.	我没办法再想出任何点子。
And reaching success, I always did what I loved.	为了成功，我总是做我最喜欢的事
But I'm a guy; I knew how to fix it.	但身为一个男人，我知道该怎么解决
He said, "No. But it can buy Prozac."	他回答。"但可以买到百忧解。"
Well, it didn't take long for business to drop like a rock.	很快的，我的事业如坠深渊
It was down to just the two of us, and we were about to go under.	只剩下我们两个，也差不多要完蛋了
Because with no employees, there was nobody for me to manage.	因为没有员工，就不用管理
So I went back to doing the projects I loved.	我可以回去做我喜欢的计划
But in the end, business grew bigger than ever.	但现在，我们的公司比之前更强大
And I threw it away and haven't needed it since.	我把它扔了出去，再也没有碰过
I learned that success isn't a one-way street.	我学到成功不是一条单行道
I dreamed of it, and that's all I dreamed of.	这就是我的梦想，我梦想的一切。
And I was certain that's what my life would be.	我很确定我的生活会是怎样。
And the soprano section is just full of hot girls."	而且女高音部全是辣妹。"
I'm a little nervous, just to let you know.	我只想告诉你，我有点紧张。
Here's our winner of the soprano solo.	这是我们女高音独唱的优胜者。
And Scott aggregated all of the videos.	斯科特把所有视频聚集在一起。
And I had the same reaction you did.	我也有与各位同样的反应。
That's the number for us to beat."	这就是我们要超越的数字。"
It's so wonderful to sing together again!"	能再次一起演唱实在是太棒了！"
This is "Sleep," the Virtual Choir.	这就是虚拟唱诗班歌唱的"睡眠"。
We are today talking about moral persuasion.	我们今天要谈的是道德引导
My values can be radically different from your values.	我的价值观可能迥异于你的价值观
But I also realized that there is one thing that I could give you.	但是我也清楚，有一件事我能给你们
And here's another example for one of these side effects.	关于副作用，还有另外一个例子
It's better if you care about learning something.	更好的方式是在意学到了什么
Now is that all -- intention, effect?	意图，影响，这就是全部了吗？
Well there are some technologies which obviously combine both.	实际上，有些技术显然两者兼具
They want us to fit in even better.	他们希望我们能更好的融入
Is it "still" permissible?	这是不是"依旧"被允许的？
is just one way of looking at ethics.	只是审视伦理的其中一种方式
Ethics was about the question of how to live life well.	伦理是关于如何好好生活的疑问
And why is he building a thing like this?	那么他为什么要造这么个东西呢？
And that's exactly what we were aiming for.	而这个效果就是我们想要达到的
Most online classes, the videos are always available.	大多数在线课程的视频都是
More important is motivation and determination.	更重要的培养积极性和决心
They got this statement of accomplishment.	他们最后收获到了这个结业证明
So what have we learned?	那么我们又学到了什么呢？
We simply couldn't capture it on video.	我们无法简单的用视频来拍下它。
And believe it or not, they went for it.	无论你是否相信，他们真的同意了
So that was really cool and very unexpected.	这真是非常酷并且及其难以置信。
So, you might be wondering, well, how do they do it?	你可能会想问，他们是怎么做到的。
And so I thought that this was sort of the end of the story.	我曾认为这便是本故事的结尾了。
And this really sort of had me scratching my head for a while.	这一刻我头脑中似乎真的灵光一现。
And so I wired up what's called a load cell.	因此，我安装了一个测压元件。
And we were able to get some force measurements out.	我们可以获得一些力的度量。
And they're literally unable to strike or they will self-destruct.	它们显然是不能攻击的，那是找死。
And it's all a question of perspective.	这完全是看问题的角度问题
Well, it's the relative importance.	就是二者间的相对重要性。
It's a thin film, two-dimensional existence.	这是个薄层，以二维形式存在。
The ocean representation would have a depth to it.	而海洋的演示会表现出深度。
Because it's a problem we have.	因为我们确实有这个问题，
Okay. Let me criticize this thing.	好的，下来我要批评一个事情。
This is an acryclic sphere.	这不是一个可以轮转的球体。
This is the envelope, and this is the gondola, the payload.	这是气囊，这是吊篮、载荷。
And this one actually carries two great manipulators.	这一个，携带有两个很大的机械手。
Now, go into the real atmosphere of this planet.	现在，进入这个行星真正的大气层。
It's truly a three-dimensional space.	这是一个真正的三维空间，
And we're only just beginning to grasp it.	而我们才刚刚开始理解它。
This is man's first attempt at flying underwater.	这是人类第一次尝试在水下飞翔。
I put reverse thrust and I try and pull gently down.	我翻转推进，想慢慢地往下。
I'm trying to do everything very gently.	我试着很小心地做这一切。
She gets about that close and then she pulls away.	一到完结，她就转身离开了。
She just rolled right away from underneath.	她刚刚从下面翻了个跟斗，
I just had to go and build another machine.	我需要再去建造一架机器。
Now, there she goes, right overhead.	看，她就在那，在头顶上。
She's just a few inches off the top of my head.	她就在我头上几英寸的地方。
Okay, can we cut that? Lights back up please.	好的，可以停了吗？请打开灯。
They're one of the first subsea aviators.	他们是第一批的海底飞行员。
So we've run two flight schools.	我们举办了两期飞行学校。
Now the Gowanus is particularly smelly -- I will admit it.	我得承认，现在运河臭得很
Here we are, back to our hero, the oyster.	现在回到环保英雄牡蛎身上
They were key in our culture and our economy.	我们的文化和经济都离不开牡蛎
Many, many species depend on them.	许许多多物种都依存于牡蛎
How does the reef work? Well, it's very, very simple.	那么牡蛎礁的原理是什么呢？
And that grows over time dynamically with the threat of climate change.	它可以因应气候变化不断发展变化
One is: why isn't it happening now?	一是何时能看到你们的成果
And the answer is: not yet, they're working.	我的回答是，耐心地等一等
The public health authorities had largely ignored what he had to say.	公共健康机关完全忽略了他的话。
So it was this incredibly terrifying event.	所以，是这个难以置信的可怕事件。
And eventually Snow made a map of the outbreak.	最后斯洛给这个事件画了一张图。
And this happens every two weeks.	而且每两个星期就会发生这样的事。
I took her portrait up on top of the Jokhang Temple.	我是在大昭寺的顶上拍下了她，
So I was going in, interviewing these people and doing their portraits.	我继续采访着这些人，给他们拍照。
This is Jigme and her sister, Sonam.	这是吉美和她的妹妹索南，
This was on a monkey hunt, hunting with curare-tipped darts.	他们用带着毒素的镶齿飞镖猎猴。
And these people are the people who take the brunt of it.	而承担这一切的便是这里的当地人。
And then we went up and met their shaman.	然后我们去见了他们的萨满法师，
And this is John Doolikahn, who's the shaman of the Kalash.	卡拉什部落的巫师叫约翰•杜利坎，
And he's up in the mountains, right on the border with Afghanistan.	他住在与阿富汗交界处的高山上。
And we watched and stayed with John Doolikahn.	我们和杜利坎呆在一起观看。
We have the website, where the kids all get their homepage.	我们让这些孩子制作自己的主页，
It was a two million dollar study.	这个研究耗费了两百万美元，
United States came in second to last in geographic knowledge.	美国人的地理知识排倒数第二。
And this is a study that was just done a couple of years ago.	而这个研究仅仅进行于几年之前。
It's a question of what's the continuity?	这是一个关于什么是连续性的问题
You'd like to have a little advance warning.	这时候你可能收到一些警告
And behind that are some more modern galaxies.	那个后面是一些比较新兴的星系
And there's some spectacular things.	然后发生了一些壮观的事情
What kind of evidence do we have for that?	我们有什么证据能证明那些呢？
So there's a dot on here for every galaxy.	每个星系都有一个小点代替
And just put radially they're going out that way.	然后呈放射状地把他们放好
Now I'm going to show you this in 3D.	现在我用三维的方式给你们展示一下
We only have a million galaxies, right?	我们只有几百万个星系，对吧？
There's a more complicated process going on here.	这儿肯定有一个很复杂的过程
And so now we're in for some serious play.	所以我们下面要认真一点了
So the stuff that's in this picture that's white, that is the dark matter.	所以图片里面的白色东西就是暗物质
So I'll show you the next movie.	然后我给你们看看下一个影片
So we live in the boonies.	所以说我们居住的地方是很遥远的
So it takes light three billion years to travel over that distance.	所以光需要三十亿年来穿越那个距离
That's the distance between us and Andromeda, right?	就是从我们到仙女座的距离
So the question is, how hard would it be to assemble this, right?	问题就来了要组装起它来得多难啊？
So I'm going to show you a smaller simulation.	下面我们来看一个小的模拟
The fluctuations are a part in 100,000.	波动出现的比率是十万分之一
This is light over density, pulls the material around in.	由于密度，周围的物质开始凝聚
You can see that just from the map alone.	你可以从地图上就辨认出来
I see a lot of very blank faces.	我看到你们中很多茫然的脸。
The result, of course, is that we get stressed.	而结果，当然是我们感到压力。
You get stressed, you do some meditation.	当感到压力的时候，你就冥想一会。
It was a really very stressful time.	那真的是一段非常难熬的时间。
Some people hit the bottle, start taking medication.	还有些人酗酒，或开始使用药品。
Well, obviously it changed things.	嗯，很显然它改变了很多事情。
But we need to know how to do it.	但我们需要知道怎么做到。
Let's say this is an anxious thought.	比如说这是一个焦虑的思绪。
This was the destruction of my dream of becoming an artist.	这摧毁了我成为艺术家的梦想
I actually didn't even have a regular pair of scissors.	事实上我连普通剪刀也没有
Then I opened it up to creating art that was destroyed naturally.	接着我采用自然销毁方式进行创作
So the end image was never visible as a physical whole.	因此最终图像从未完整存在
It was destroyed before it ever existed.	它在诞生前即遭受毁灭的命运
And what if I didn't embrace the shake?	如果我不曾尝试与颤抖共处呢？
It turned out to be about life, and having life skills.	事实上这关乎人生，及拥有生活技能
I just wanted to get the job done and get out of there fast.	我只想完成工作然后快速离去。
The point being, no human being should be living anywhere near the dead zone.	即是说，没有人应该住在这里附近，
They're called self-settlers.	他们是所谓的自我定居者。
Another village might have six or seven residents.	另一条村落可能有六七人。
The dead zone, it turns out, is full of life.	所谓的死区，其实是充满生命的。
"If you leave, you die."	"如果你走，你就死了。"
"Those who left are worse off now.	"那些已离去的现在生活得更差；
Home and community are forces that rival even radiation.	家和社会是比辐射更强大的力量。
Her text said, "Mom, you will rock."	她说"妈妈，你会震撼全场的！"
I embody the central paradox.	我自己就处在这样一个核心矛盾里。
We were exploring different aspects of ourselves.	我们正从不同的角度探索自己。
So what happened?	那这十几年间发生了什么呢？
People explain to me that it's hard, but that it can be done.	他们说这虽然难但还是可以做到的。
And we even text at funerals.	人们甚至在葬礼上发短信。
People want to customize their lives.	人们想要定制他们的生活，
I'm the one who doesn't want to be interrupted.	"我也不想让别人打扰我。"
When I ask people "What's wrong with having a conversation?"	我问人们"为什么不面对面交谈？"
And we clean them up with technology.	我们现在可以用技术使它变简便。
And many people found this amazing.	很多人都觉得这种技术很棒。
People experience pretend empathy as though it were the real thing.	会把伪装的同情和共鸣当作真的。
We're lonely, but we're afraid of intimacy.	我们很孤独却又害怕亲密的关系。
It's shaping a new way of being.	它催生了一种的新的生活方式。
We almost don't feel ourselves.	我们几乎感觉不到自己的存在了。
How do you get from connection to isolation?	为什么联系会导致隔绝呢？
When this happens, we're not able to appreciate who they are.	这时候，我们并不真正地欣赏别人，
But it's not, it's early days.	实则不然，它还在起步阶段。
Find ways to demonstrate this as a value to your children.	向你的孩子们说明独处的价值。
We have everything we need to start.	我们拥有做这种改变所需的一切。
But I didn't like it. And I didn't agree with it.	但是我不喜欢，也不赞成。
And she -- after some time, she said she wanted to think about that.	她愣了一下，说她要想一下。
And that gives you a great deal of pleasure, to see them go on.	看着他们成长给你很大很多的喜悦。
I believe in time -- very important.	我信守时间。这非常重要。
And I tell them, "Don't run practices late.	我跟他们说，"不要下班太晚。
Because you'll go home in a bad mood.	不然你就会带着不好的情绪回家，
Not like the coaches today, for gracious sakes, no.	跟现在的教练不一样，感谢上帝。
It's a little different than it was in my day.	在我们那个时候情况有点不一样。
And those actually came from my dad.	其实这三个原则来源于我父亲。
And they are. They want to change everything.	没错，他们想改变所有事情。
They think all change is progress.	他们认为只要是改变就是进步。
I've felt that way on certain occasions, at various times.	我在很多不同场合有这样的感觉。
But there's getting there that's the fun.	但是不断靠近目标是有意思的。
But I'd want one that could play, too.	但是我也想要一个能打球的人。
But I'd want one that would play offense too.	但是我也想要一个能打前锋的人。
And I'd want one that could pass and would pass.	我想要一个能传球也愿意传球的人。
I wanted them to be able to shoot from the outside.	我想要他们能够从外围投球，
And why not just take someone like Keith Wilkes and let it go at that.	要不就拿基思•威尔克斯来说吧，
And so they played pretty good defense for us.	所以他们为我们打了极其好的防守。
It really involves many different areas.	再生医学包括很多研究领域，
And that's where the field is today.	这就是当今再生医学的研究水平。
And that really has to do to many different challenges.	这是因为有很多不同的难关。
Over the last 20 years, we've basically tackled that.	过去的二十年间，我们就卡在这里。
So we can actually use biomaterials now.	这里我们就要用到生物材料。
This is actually like a cotton candy machine.	像你们现在看到的，做出生物材料。
These are actually cells that we obtained.	这些是我们得到的真的细胞，
So they know what to do.	这说明它们知道该干什么，
We then put it in this oven-like device.	然后把模子放进"烤箱"，
As you know, a lot of organs are actually discarded, not used.	要知道，很多器官都被丢弃不用了。
And then finally you're able to get that structure out.	最后你就能得到整个组织了。
That was all new bone that was implanted using these techniques.	这里的骨头都是用这个技术移植的。
We're also working on more sophisticated printers.	我们还在研制更为复杂的打印机，
In fact, we actually have the printer right here.	事实上，我们在现场就有一个。
Thank you, Dr. Kang. I appreciate it.	谢谢你康医生，我很感谢。
And this is actually a new technology we're working on now.	这是我们正在研究的新技术。
I was missing school. It was pretty much miserable.	我没法上学，生活很惨淡。
I became the captain of the team, and that was great.	我成了摔跤队长，感觉真棒。
I've got it for life, so I'm all set.	伴我一生。我别无它求了。"
So what's happening here?	那么，到底现在在发生什么呢？
I call this "groundswell collaborative consumption."	我把这个叫做公众协作消费。
Together they grow their own food.	他们共同种些他们自己的食物。
Just think of libraries and laundrettes.	想想看图书馆和自助洗衣店。
In other words, I can trust him or her.	换言之，我会信任他或她。
I'm on a mission to make sharing cool.	我的任务是让这种分享更酷，
My name is Joseph, a Member of Parliament in Kenya.	我叫约瑟夫，是肯尼亚的一名议员。
Stayed when everybody else was dropping out.	别人退学了，我一直留下来。
My family moved; we're nomads.	我的家庭迁来迁去。我们是游牧人。
Fifty miles, 40 miles, it doesn't matter.	50英里，40英里，都不重要。
But these two people worked something out.	但是这两个人却想了一个办法。
The man on top can see, the blind man can walk.	骑在上面的人能看，而盲人能走。
We'll walk you, you lead us."	你领着我们大家，我们举着你走。"
So I said, "I'm going to dedicate myself.	于是我说，"我要献一份力，
And I came for them, and that's my goal.	我是为他们才来，这是我的目标。
We're building dispensaries across that constituency.	我们会在选区里建立诊所。
This experience changed our lives.	这段经历改变了我们的生活
Trees were thrown against the house, the windows exploded.	树木呗吹向房子,砸碎玻璃
And I drove home late that night with batteries and ice.	之后我带着电池和冰块连夜开车回家
It had become a community gathering place overnight.	一夜之间成了附近居民的避难所
We should really inventory the donations that are piling up here.	我们应该把这些捐来的东西储存起来
We need to canvas and send out volunteers.	我们需要做个调查,然后派出志愿者
MO: We need to tell people what not to bring.	MO:我们需要告诉人们不要带什么
CO: You got my number off the news?	CO:你是从新闻上看到我号码的?
Together: Someone get me Post-its!	合:谁帮我把便利贴拿来!
MO: My boyscout troop would like to rebuild 12 mailboxes.	MO:我的童子军能做12个邮箱
Disaster relief is essentially a backwards political campaign.	灾难救助其实是政治选举的反过程
And we launched our platform.	于是我们搭建了自己的平台
Because Caitria and I live here in Boston.	因为Caitria和我住在波士顿
They took to it immediately, and now they are forces of nature.	他们很快就用上了现在已经成了本能
And our community's never been more connected or more empowered.	我们的社区第一次如此团结和强大
It was a 10 by 10 cell.	这是一个10米乘以10米的房间
Talk about more plastic bags than plankton.	比起浮游生物更令人头疼是塑料袋,
I love stories. I want to read."	我喜欢故事。我想读书。"
In fact, I think they're putting up my grade six report.	事实上，我想他们在展示我的成绩单
I do. I look for it all the time.	我留意过。我一直在寻找它。
And it brought me into contact with volunteers and helpers.	它还让我与志愿者和协助者保持联系
I gave them a tape recorder, and they read into it.	我给他们录音机，然后他们录下内容
I think there's more memory in my watch.	我想我的手表有更大的内存
You see, if I read like that, I'd fall asleep.	如果我这样阅读，我可能睡着
I still love being close to someone reading to me.	我依旧热爱与为我阅读的人保持亲密
Of course, talking books for the blind predated all this technology.	当然，盲人的有声读物先于这些科技
There are other barriers brought about by our laws.	还有其他由法律产生的障碍
In no other Latin American country are there more than a couple of thousand.	在其他拉丁美洲国家有上千本
I've indeed been a very fortunate human being.	我一直以来都是非常幸运的人
It's already flattening out.	现在，顶端基本上已经平坦了。
Head injuries are bad for you. They lead to Parkinson's disease.	头部受伤会增加患帕金斯症的机率。
But hey, you're listening to me.	那么你们听见我说的了吧。
Because the clock is ticking for all of us.	因为时钟滴答作响，时不我待。
The thing to keep in mind is that this is absolutely great news.	要牢记的是，这是非常好的消息。
This is the best economic news on the planet these days.	这是地球上最好的经济新闻。
We are seeing an amazing flourishing taking place.	我们看到了令人惊异的蓬勃发展。
This is just a plain statement of the facts.	它只是对事实的平实陈述而已。
This is not the kind of societal problem that I am concerned about.	这不是我所担心的那种社会问题。
He's at the top of the American middle class.	他处在美国中产阶级的顶层。
I do know that education is a huge part of it.	我只知道教育是不可或缺的一部分。
We're facing very tough challenges.	我们现在面临着非常严峻的挑战。
I am a vicar in the Church of England.	我是一名英国圣公会的牧师。
But I have a problem with that.	但我觉得这个观念是不对的。
And we want an explanation from God.	我们希望上帝给一个解释，
We demand an explanation from God.	我们强烈要求上帝给一个解释。
I very much relate to this idea of God.	我很赞同这个关于上帝的看法。
So the first big question is about control.	因此，第一个大问题是关于掌控。
So the next question is about partiality.	因此，接下来的问题是关于偏袒。
I merely, most respectfully, return Him the ticket."	我只是恭敬地退回他的门票而已。"
Is God a cold, unfeeling spectator?	上帝是一个冷酷无情的旁观者吗？
Maybe God isn't an agent like all of us are agents.	也许上帝不是我们这样的代理人。
The loving soul of the universe.	比如是宇宙中关爱的灵魂，
In the collective unconscious, the soul of the human race.	在集体无意识、人类的灵魂中，
In presence and in absence. In simplicity and complexity.	在存在与虚无中，在简单和复杂中，
If we knew, God would not be God.	如果我们知道，上帝就不是上帝了。
And how would one deepen such a faith?	那么我们如何深化这种信仰？
Only doubts and questioning and uncertainty.	只有怀疑、质问和不确定。
And so, I want to kind of go through my little story of what I found out.	好，我来谈谈我所发现的小故事。
And that's the very first use of the word.	这是第一次使用这个单词。
Which is, again, a sense that it's all new.	这又再次证明技术是指新的东西。
But we know that it's just not new.	但是我们知道它不仅仅是新东西，
So, it was a world without grandparents.	因此，那是一个没有祖父母的世界。
Some anthropologists call that the original affluent society.	一些人类学家称之为原始富足社会。
So, it was possible to get enough food.	就有可能获得足够的粮食。
And that's why they didn't live very long.	这也是他们活不长久的原因。
The other thing that the early man invented was fire.	另一件事情是早期人类发明了火。
It enabled us to actually eat all kinds of things.	它使我们可以吃各种东西。
So, climate change is not a new thing.	所以气候变化不是一个新鲜事物。
So, humanity is our greatest invention.	所以，人性是我们最伟大的发明。
But of course we're not done yet.	当然了，我们还没有完全做好。
The amount of energy is increasing through this little sequence.	能量通过这个小顺序在增加。
It's a branching off from the human form.	这是一个有别于人类形式的分支。
It has an urge, and technology has an urge.	这往往是驱策，技术有着驱策力。
That's actually my son, right here.	这实际上是我的儿子，就在这儿。
We just have to find them the right place.	我们只是要找到他们的合适位置。
Is technology diametrically opposed to nature?	技术和自然是截然相反的吗？
I really appreciate your attention today. Thank you.	非常感激你们今天的关注。谢谢
I have not slept in weeks.	我有好几周都没睡好觉了。
It used to be in my kitchen in Brooklyn.	在那以前，我的厨房就是办公室
You can't just have a tutoring center."	单单搞一个辅导中心是不够的！
You see, this is sort of a sketch I did on a napkin.	看，这时我在一块手绢上画的一幅画
We had tables, chairs, computers, everything.	那里有书、桌椅和其他的工具
She took over as executive director.	让她担任整个项目的执行主任
So that was the basis of it, was one-on-one attention.	我们说最根本一点就是一对一的关注
They don't do their homework in front of the TV.	不需坐在电视机前面写作业
So we started bringing in classes during the day.	所以我们决定要在日间开课
So then we still had more tutors to use.	不过，我们的志愿者人数还是很多
So we put that out on the wire: 1,400 tutors.	于是我们就把消息发布出去
She's going to publish them in a book.	她会把你们的文章做成一本书
Now we're sort of addicted to the book thing.	甚至是变得有点出书成瘾了
And so then they're all sold in the store. This is near the planks.	孩子的书摆在店卖就放在木板旁边
Where else would you put them, right?	你还能想象把这些书放在别的地方吗
And people would come in and learn more about it.	进来的人们都会学到一些东西
So the store actually did really well.	我们可以说这店办得还挺好的
So, it became this sort of weird, happy accident.	这时候奇怪的事情又发生了
Because they have to do it hand on heart and everything.	毕竟他们做这些商品花了不少心机
You can see it there in the middle next to all the grappling hooks.	在一大堆钩子中间你会发现这个门
So it's school, but it's not school.	那是一个学校又不是一个学校
So, I'll go through really quickly.	好时间不多我快速的过一遍
Always let the teachers lead the way.	记住永远都要让教师做决定
There are a million ways.	可以有数以百万计的方式去做
You email him, he'll answer any question you possibly want.	也可以给他写电邮他也会回复的
You can do and use the skills that you have.	你完全可以运用你的技能去参与
I just remember the sound was so heavy and so very shocking.	只记得那声音是如此巨大如此吓人
And I kept on staring at it until it disappeared.	我目不转睛地盯着直到那团火球消失
I am that refugee, and I am that girl.	我就是那个难民我就是那个女孩
It is actually about silence, the silence of humanity."	它其实是一种沉默人性的沉默"
It's too painful. You don't want to think about it.	光是想想就能让你觉得痛苦不堪
That's what my mother in Iraq used to tell me.	我在伊拉克的母亲也曾经这么说过
It's like dying from inside-out.	这好像从内心开始死去一样
Eighty percent of refugees around the world are women and children. Oh.	世界上有80%的难民是女人和孩童
Ninety percent of modern war casualties are civilians.	现代战争中平民占了90%的伤亡
These just become numbers that we refer to.	这些却只是成为我们参考的数字
We are missing a completely other side of wars.	我们完全忽略了战争的另一面
And the ones who are keeping that life are women.	而那些维持生活继续的是女人们
Are there good news? Of course, there are good news. There are lots of good news.	有这方面的好消息吗？有，而且很多
Let us make this field a much bigger place.	让我们将这片天地变得更大
So, I looked for a different show to watch.	所以，我就找其他的节目看。
We're human beings: we love complex things.	我们是人类，我们喜欢复杂的事物。
I'm at this place called the Media Lab.	我在这个被称为媒体实验室的地方。
Maybe some of you guys have heard of this place.	可能你们都听说过这个地方。
Another "Associate Director of Research."	另一个副调研总监的职务。
That's my baby Reina. Thank you.	笑声这是我的宝贝女儿瑞娜。谢谢。
He basically said, "I've designed everything."	他从根本上说，"我设计了一切。"
In the simplicity realm, it's also interesting.	在简洁的层面，也很有趣，
And I've always felt bad about it, in a sense.	某种层面上，我总是感觉很不好。
And so I made a lot of these types of things.	我制作了很多这种类型的东西。
If you're in New York, please go and see that.	如果你在纽约，请你前往参观。
So, this is sort of a complication I've found.	所以，这是我发现的一个复杂之处。
You can't type very much on this.	你不能在这个上面打太多的字。
Oh, you guys are missing out, if you haven't done it yet.	哦，如果你们没做过，那你真失败。
So, I wanted to play with Cheetos in some way.	所以，我想用芝士玉米条做点什么。
And so, I began to crinkle up potato chip flecks, and also pretzels.	我又开始用薯片和小卷饼。
People ask me how they make the antenna.	人们问我用什么做的触角。
In Japan, they say that sushi is challenging.	在日本，他们说寿司很难做。
I think this is sort of simple more versus less.	我觉得这是一种简单的多对比少。
This was given to me by the chairman of Shiseido.	这是资生堂的董事长给我的图表。
Also, if you look at your physical strength.	同样的，如果你看你的体能。
OK. It gets them to work harder, sometimes.	有时，这样能让他们更努力地工作。
I love these eighty-year-old, ninety-year-old guys and women.	我爱那些八九十岁的老人们。
And this is an amazing experience for me as well.	这对我也是一个奇妙的体验。
Let me show you these slides here.	我给大家展示一些幻灯片。
This is what's happened in the last 28 years.	这就是在过去28年里所发生的。
That puts a lot of pressure on Greenland.	这给格陵兰岛带来很大的压力。
They have exactly the same amount of carbon.	两个星球有恰好同等数量的碳含量。
It's not because Venus is slightly closer to the Sun.	并非因为进行金星离太阳更近一些，
And it is based on an old model.	这种组合是以旧的模式为基础的。
We need help. We need help.	我们需要协助助，我们需要协助。
What's needed really is a higher level of consciousness.	所需要的只是更高水平的认识。
So we have to have a change in consciousness.	所以我们必须改变我们的意识，
A change in commitment. A new sense of urgency.	改变我们的信奉。一种新的危机感，
And this is what this exhibition looks at.	这就是这项展览所追求的。
I can't get my father in Italy to work on the Internet.	我无法让在意大利的老爸上网。
He doesn't want to put high-speed Internet at home.	他不想在家中装高速网络。
In this case too, you have a mixture of scientists and designers.	这例子也是科学家和设计师的结合。
One of the assignments for a year was to work with in-vitro meat.	有一年的作业是用培养皿种肉。
You know that already you can grow meat in vitro.	你知道，已经可以用培养皿种肉。
But the problem is that it's a really ugly patty.	但问题是种出来的很难看。
It used to be called rapid prototyping, rapid modeling.	它曾叫做快速原型、快速模型法。
And usually they are accompanied by videos.	通常它们伴随影片来呈现。
Those are a series of robots that are meant to be taken care of.	那些是一系列要人照顾的机器人。
So he designed all these series of accessories.	因此他设计了这系列的附件。
This one is something that takes away the sheets from you at night.	像这个夜里会把你的被单抽走。
Then there's another one that breathes on your neck.	而这个的呼吸会吹在你的脖子上。
There's another one that throws plates and breaks them.	还有另一个会丢盘子、甩破它。
Or how we should behave about it with new technologies.	或者，以新科技我们会有什么做法。
It's the idea that some people don't believe in an afterlife.	主要构想是有些人不信有来世。
Can you get me some information?	"能给我一些关于战争的数据吗？"
No. So I had to think a little harder.	不行？！嗯……看来我要另想办法了
There was data within the streams of news that we consume.	是关于当前所播新闻的数据信息
We brought this raw data in and we filtered it.	从中提取原始数据并加以过滤
What if we were to look at the distribution of the sizes of attacks?	如果我们想看看攻击规模的分布的话
What would that tell us?	那么这个能告诉我们什么呢？
And on the vertical axis you've got the number of attacks.	纵轴上显示的是攻击的频率
Why should there be order in war?	为什么会产生如此的排列呢？
This is data, statistics. What does it tell us about these conflicts?	这个数据统计表，能告诉我们什么？
That was a challenge we had to face as physicists.	这是我们作为物理学者所面临的挑战
How do we explain this?	我们该如何解释这个数据？
How do we end a war like Iraq?	我们怎样才能结束伊拉克战争？
One of my favorite cartoon characters is Snoopy.	史努比是我最喜爱的卡通人物之一
We all, I think, believe in compassion.	我想大家都认可同情之心。
And I'm touched, so that tears come to my eyes.	我的心受到触动，眼泪忍不住涌出
And there are some charity workers who call this compassion fatigue.	慈善工作者称这种看法为同情疲软
Therefore, there should be justice throughout the world.	理所当然整个世界都应该是正义的
If you put too much cold water in, it will shatter.	如果加入过多冷水，碗就会碎
There is something more though that has to be there.	除此之外，我们还要考虑更多
All these three things, then, have to be melded together.	爱、宽容以及慈悲应该相互融合
What does it mean, "dough becomes leaven"?	这又意味着什么呢，面团发酵？
It means it gets filled with hot air.	它意味着面团内里被热空气填满
He goes in there, and it's not there.	他打开约柜，但是面包不见了
Next week, with raisins."	下周我会加上葡萄干给你。"
And he called the two of them to his office.	然后他把富人和穷人都叫到办公室里
Now what does it have to do with chronic pain?	这跟慢性疼痛有什么关联呢？
In fact, imagine something even worse.	事实上，想象下更糟糕的情况。
You can see that the arm is discolored, purplish in color.	你可以看到手臂已经变色有点青紫
How can the nervous system get this so wrong?	神经系统怎么会犯这样的错呢？
And when you turn the switch on, the light goes on.	当你打开开关的时候，灯泡亮了
And when you turn the switch off, the light goes off.	等你关闭开关的时候，灯泡熄灭。
65 million years ago the dinosaurs had a bad day.	6500万年前恐龙们倒了大霉了
Now, scoop up Long's Peak, and put it out in space.	把朗斯峰连锅端起来把它放到外太空
Now, not all asteroids are that big.	并不是所有小行星都这么大
Some of them are smaller.	有些小行星或陨石体型较小
It was 1908. That's fine. I can live with that.	应该是1908年没事儿我可以忍受
Well the good news is, we're looking for them.	好消息是我们正在寻找这些小行星
NASA has devoted money to this.	美国国家航空航天局正在这上面投钱
I don't think Apophis is a problem.	我们不需要太担心阿波菲斯
The purpose wasn't to push it out of the way.	这么做目的不是为了把它推出轨道
And there are a lot of other problems with that. It's very hard to do.	这里面有很多问题操作相当困难
But just hitting something? That's pretty easy.	但想要打中一个物体是轻而易举的
This probe actually can't use chemical rockets.	这个探测器实际上不能使用化学火箭
They're a hundred years ahead of us with this drive."	他们的助推器领先我们一百年。"
that's the difference, that's the difference between us and the dinosaurs.	这就是我们和恐龙之间的不同之处
It doesn't have to happen to us.	这样的结局不会发生在我们身上
And also start with a little bit of statistics.	下面我们来看一些统计数据。
And you have a problem making ends meet.	这下你的生计就出问题了。
And we all had all of that on tapes.	我们把这一切都录了下来。
We had the ability to understand what was going on.	我们有能力了解整个事件的过程。
And what did I know at that time about media systems?	当时我哪懂什么媒体管理啊？
The big plan was to ask him for a 1,000,000-dollar loan.	大的方案是找他要一百万元的贷款，
That was really the only question he had.	这确实是他问的唯一一个问题。
Somebody must have started something like that.	一定有人已经开启了这类的先例。
So I thought that that's actually my problem.	所以我当时认为是我本身有问题。
Now we go from here, fast forward to 1995.	从这里开始，快放到1995年。
You know, forget about charity; it doesn't work.	忘掉慈善机构，行不通的；
Forget about handouts; 20,000 dollars do not help anybody.	忘掉捐款，两万块钱帮不了任何人。
What you should do is you should treat media companies as a business.	我们应该视媒体公司为商业机构。
And what these guys need, actually, is access to capital.	他们真正需要的是获取资本的途径。
First, under no circumstances I want to hang myself.	第一，不论怎样我都不会上吊。
So I had absolutely no idea how that could actually work.	所以我完全不知道如何实际运作。
You know, you find somebody who is respectable and has a lot of money.	你找到一个有名望又有钱的人。
So here we are having our first client, brilliant.	我们的第一个客户来了。很杰出——
First independent newspaper in Slovakia.	斯洛伐克的第一家独立报社。
They come to us with a request for a loan.	这家报社向我们寻求贷款。
We were the best that they could do.	他们真的只能做到这个程度。
Just quickly on the results.	简短的说一下我们的成绩。
What do we typically finance?	我们一般融资给那些项目？
But what is most important here is, who do we finance?	但最最重要的是，我们给谁融资？
Anyway, he's running independent newspaper there.	总之，他在那儿办一份独立报纸。
I have no interest in being in media business.	我没有兴趣长期待在媒体业里。
So it sounds like a great story.	听起来这是个很了不起的故事。
But there is a second angle to that.	但是这个故事还有另外一个视角。
The second angle, like in this clip.	就像那个短片一样，另一个视角就是
And it's why it was invented.	就是为什么当初独立媒体会诞生。
Now ours is just one story.	我们的故事只是一个故事。
But let's take the idea further.	我们把这个想法再推进一步。
But you can actually bring it to Europe, too.	然而你完全可以把它带到欧洲去，
Now take it to the last step.	再把这个想法提升到最后一层。
What happens to matter if you chop it up very fine?	如果你把它再分下去会怎样呢？
Well, here's an example from my own experience.	先让我讲一个我自己的经历吧。
Experiments were all wrong.	后来知道那些实验都是错的。
But they could be out there, very easily.	但很大可能，他们的确存在。
The basic law, let's say -- here's an assumption.	这里有一个关于基本定律的假设
Now, some people call that a theory of everything.	有些人称其为"万有理论"
Now, sometimes those probabilities are near certainties.	有时它的预测是接近正确的
And in a lot of familiar cases, they of course are.	在很多常见的情况下，他们一定如此
They require very similar mathematics.	他们需要十分相似的数学。
Here's an example of this similarity.	这就是相似性的一个例子。
It's a very simple example.	这是一个非常简单的例子。
Symmetry is very important in this discussion.	对称性在这里是非常重要的。
The only magnetism comes from electric charges and currents.	磁场唯一的来源就是电荷和电流。
So the mathematics for the adjoining skins is very similar to what we need for the new one.	描述新旧理论的数学也是相似的。
Now, who today would claim that as a mere conceit of the human mind?	谁想被视为一个妄想狂呢？
It stems from the character of gravity.	它来自于万有引力的性质。
They follow from the fundamental theory.	它们是由基本定律推导出的。
Presumably, they mean something supernatural.	他们很可能在问是否存在超自然。
Literature allowed him to transcend his surroundings.	文学作品让他超越了环境的束缚
And that worthy ambition became his lodestar.	这一志向变成了林肯的座右铭
He never submitted to jealousy or brooded over perceived slights.	他从不嫉妒别人或者因小事计较。
We had a big dance at the White House.	我们在白宫里举行了一个大型舞会。
President Johnson did dance with me that night.	约翰逊总统那天晚上的确和我跳舞了
So I did end up working for him in the White House.	所以最后我还是在白宫里为他效力。
Fabulous, colorful, anecdotal stories.	他会讲很多非常有意思的奇闻轶事。
And he had somewhat of a minor league womanizing reputation.	而且他似乎还有些沾花惹草的名声。
And yet, roundly defeated in the end by the war in Vietnam.	最后却因越南战争被打得一派涂地。
But he came out of the outhouse not upset at all.	但是他出了外屋却一点都不生气，
"What do you mean?" they said.	"您什么意思？"他们说。
But it so happened he was speaking in a Protestant Church.	当他在清教徒的教堂里说话的时候。
And there were no indulgences around that I could buy.	那时候我不能在家附近买到赎罪券。
You do not need to wish harm on others to make it happen."	我们不能期待别人受伤而赢得比赛
Thank you for letting me be that storyteller today.	谢谢你们今天听我讲的这些故事。
It doesn't, I agree, look very much.	我同意，它看起来并不起眼
It's about the size of a rugby ball.	差不多是一只橄榄球的大小
He'd ransacked, desecrated the temple.	他将圣殿洗劫一空，还亵渎了神明
It's a great story. It's story we all know.	这是个精彩的故事，我们都知道
They're not shy of hyperbole as you can see.	你看，他们夸张起来可真不害臊
So the hyperbole is not actually surprising.	所以这里的夸张其实并不叫人惊讶
He'll let them return to their countries.	他会让他们回到自己的国家
They were allowed to return to Jerusalem and to rebuild the temple.	他们被允许回到耶路撒冷重建神庙
It's a central document in Jewish history.	这在犹太历史上是一份核心文件
This is the Jewish version of the same story.	下面是关于同一个故事的犹太版本
Who is there among you of his people?	你们中间凡是作为他的子民的
It had to be run in different languages.	必须采用多语言的治理方式
All of those are respected by Cyrus.	所有这一切都受到赛鲁士的尊重
No other evidence.	再没有别的证据可以证明了
Suddenly, this appeared.	突然之间，这件文物出现了
For them, of course, it can't possibly by Marduk that made all this happen.	当然，对他们来说不可能是马杜克
The question is, which god was it?	但问题是，是哪一个神呢？
And another story of the cylinder begins.	另一个关于赛鲁士圆柱的故事开始了
And the obvious emblem is Cyrus.	显然，赛鲁士圆柱是最合适的象征
This is beyond any blockbuster exhibition in the West.	这次展出的轰动效应在西方前所未见
It stands with the American constitution.	它与美国的宪法具有同等地位
It certainly says far more about real freedoms than Magna Carta.	他当然比大宪章更能代表真正的自由
In the world of the Middle East at the moment, the debates are, as you know, shrill.	目前的中东世界里辩论仍然十分激烈
This state of affairs is neither necessary nor is it inevitable.	这些状况并非必要或是不可避免的。
Making sense of those things is a very difficult thing to do.	搞清楚这些真是一件很难的事情
And when I was 12, I became an actor.	12岁的时候，我成为了一个演员。
And so concern is where all of this comes from.	所以焦虑是所有这些的来源。
And then I thought, well maybe I could do something.	于是我想，或许我可以做点什么。
Maybe I could become a filmmaker.	没准我可以成为一个电影制片人。
Is that a responsible thing to do? Etc., etc.	那是一个关乎责任的事情么？等等。
And that was when I had the idea.	就在那时我有了这个想法，
He saw the bomb go off at Nagasaki.	他看到原子弹在长崎爆炸。
And very quickly, some letters started coming back.	很快，一些信件得到了回复。
And we started to build this case.	于是我们开始建立这个项目。
One of the first letters was from the Dalai Lama.	第一批信中有一封是来自达赖喇嘛。
And that was kind of like the launch of this thing.	这件事情的发起大概就是这样。
For me, it was really about the process.	对我来说，真正重要的是过程，
And that's the beautiful thing about the camera.	这就是摄像机的魅力所在。
So anyway, we began the journey.	无论如何，我们开始这个旅程了，
Yeah, I'm not worried about it now.	恩，所以我现在不用担心头发了。
76 countries in the last 12 years, I've visited.	过去12年我参观了76个国家。
and working with NGOs and building this case.	与非政府组织合作，建立这个项目。
And then on the seventh of September, I was invited to New York.	之后在9月7日，我被邀请去纽约。
That was an incredible moment.	那的确是一个激动人心的时刻。
It never happened.	这个声明从来都没有被宣布。
It's been created; nobody knows.	它已经诞生了，但是没有人知道。
Children can lead their projects.	孩子们可以组织他们自己的项目，
I decided that I'd continue filming and make another movie.	我决定继续拍摄并制作另一部电影。
And I went back to the U.N. for another couple of years.	然后我又回到联合国待了两年。
And I could sort of see a little look in his eye of interest.	我可以从他眼中读到一丝兴趣。
It'd be really interesting if you came.	如果你要去的话一定很有意思。
I think there's a number of pillars to success.	我认为有很多方法可以成功，
One is you've got to have a great idea.	一个是你有一个伟大的想法。
And she was really crucial in getting the message in.	而且她对于收集信息也很关键。
We see it as a window of opportunity.	我们把这个视为机会之门，
And we will not engage. We're not going to engage."	我们不会参与。我们不会去参与。
70 percent reduction in violence on this day at least.	至少在这天暴力事件减少了70%。
And I was there thinking about what was going on.	我当时在想事情会如何进展，
That's exactly what we must do.	这正是我们必须要做的事情。
And it's in the six official languages of the United Nations.	用联合国的六种官方语言来进行。
And you can see the education box there.	并且你在那可以看到教育专席，
So, utilizing all of these ways to inspire individual action.	利用这些方式来鼓励个人行动，
Is this possible? Is it really possible that we could do this?"	有可能么？我们真的可能做到么？"
He said, "No, I'd talk to the individuals."	他说，"不，我会跟每个人去谈。"
And it then made me think about a glass of water, which is clear.	这使我想到了一杯水，很干净的水。
Our brain is three times larger than a gorilla brain.	我们的大脑是比大猩猩脑大三倍。
Well, what about our brain then?	那么,我们的大脑又是如何呢?
The human brain is not a large rat brain.	人类的大脑不是一个大老鼠的大脑。
And all of you are primates.	而且,你们全部都是灵长类动物。
It is just a large primate brain.	它只是一个大的灵长类动物的大脑。
Studying the human brain changed the way I think about food.	研究人类大脑改变我对食物的想法。
It's perfume coming from the inside out.	这种香水从内而外的散发出来
So here's to another day at the office.	那么，新的一天里要开始工作啦！
I work for the Red Cross and I'm a physical therapist.	为红十字会工作我是一个理疗医师
It's a very logical plan, but it was not always like this.	这非常符合逻辑但事情并非一直如此
For many years, we were just providing them with artificial limbs.	常年以来我们给他们的只是义肢而已
At that time I found myself in a strange situation.	当时我发现自己处于一种尴尬的境地
I felt not quite ready for that job.	我不确定自己是否适合这份工作
I wanted to go home. I was driving.	我当时正开着车-我想回家。
The man was without legs and only with one arm.	这个人没有腿只有一只手臂
The center is closed, no staff around.	中心关闭了，里面根本没有人。
There were 15, maybe 20, people like him waiting.	有十五到二十个人残疾人也等在那里
Among them there was my right-hand man, Najmuddin.	其中还有我的助手纳吉木丁
We have to go away. We cannot stay here."	我们必须离开。不能留在这里。"
So, "We cannot stay here, it's dangerous.	"我们不能留在这里，太危险了。
We have other things to do."	我们还有更重要的事情要忙。"
Believe me, I was worried because I was breaking the rules.	相信我我很担心因为我违反规定了
I was doing something that I was not supposed to do.	我做的事情不是我分内的事
Maybe some of them are here now.	可能他们有几位今天就在这里
I was working, I was going everyday to work for the homeless.	我每天都在工作帮助无家可归的人
But people were coming.	但是人们还是源源不断地来
It was April, I remember, a very beautiful day.	我记得当时是四月一个美丽的日子
April in Kabul is beautiful, full of roses, full of flowers.	喀布尔的四月异常美丽玫瑰鲜花盛开
We could not possibly stay indoors, with all these sandbags at the windows.	我们不想留在室内那些沙袋堆在窗边
So we chose a small spot in the garden.	我们这花园里找了一小块地方
We could hear in the air the bullets passing.	我们能够听到子弹飞过的声音
No need of staying with me all the day pushing my wheelchair."	不用再为我整天推轮椅了。"
I met Mahmoud one year later.	一年之后我又见到了麦哈麦得
Now help me not to be a beggar anymore."	现在请帮我让我不用再乞讨。"
"Well yes, we need to increase the production of feet.	"是的，我们需要增产假腿。
So the only things I could manage to obtain was a kind of a compromise.	我只能说服他做出一点让步
I remember him sitting behind the workbench smiling.	我记得他当时坐在工作椅上面带微笑
He was a new man, taller again.	他已经焕然一新重新站了起来
People like Mahmoud are agents of change.	像麦哈麦得这样的人是变化的载体
That's Najmuddin, the one with the white coat.	纳吉木丁也就是穿白色外套的那个
I never miss a single training session.	我从来没有错过任何一次训练
I shout like a true Italian.	我像一个真正的意大利人那样狂吼
That was my story. Thank you very much.	我的故事讲完了非常感谢大家
The question of transformation in Africa really is a question of leadership.	非洲要实现转型的关键是领导力。
Africa can only be transformed by enlightened leaders.	只有开明的领导者才能改变非洲。
We all heard about the importance of stories yesterday.	我们昨天都听说了故事的重要性。
The second time was a procedure that involved local anesthesia.	第二次手术包括局部麻醉，
Pitch black. Not a candle, not a flashlight.	漆黑一片！没有蜡烛，没有手电筒！
They are the elite. They are our leaders.	他们是中流砥柱，是我们的领导者。
Their decisions, their actions matter.	他们的决定和行为都举足轻重。
I'm talking about the elite.	我说的是社会精英层人才，
And we need to train them right.	我们应该正确地培养他们。
No sign to this effect.	而其实并没有禁止入内的标志。
I was especially concerned of what the girls might think.	我尤其担心女孩儿们会怎么想。
It was important not to look at those guns.	不被那些枪吓倒是很重要的。
They wanted us to be concerned about social issues.	他们希望我们关心社会问题。
And I was part of that.	我当时成为了其中的一部分。
The gap has widened since I left.	从我离开微软后，这个差距更大了。
And those leaders did not emerge spontaneously.	那些领导不是自然自发产生的，
Now, while I was at Microsoft, this funny thing happened.	当我还在微软的时候，有意思，
And Ghana was not paying enough attention.	而加纳并没有给予足够的重视。
I wish there was a liberal arts college in every African country.	希望在每个非洲国家都有文理学院。
Can we create a perfect society?	我们能创造一个完美的社会吗？
I don't know ultimately what they will do.	我不知道他们最终会做成什么，
Am I out of time? OK.	是不是没有时间了？哦，还有时间。
It says a lot about her.	这件事情展示了很多关于她，
It says a lot about the culture that's forming on campus.	关于校园里正在形成的文化。
It says a lot about her peers who elected her.	关于选举出她的那些同学们。
And it gives me a lot of hope.	这件事情也给我很大的希望。
There aren't very many more opportunities like this in the world.	世界上像这样的机会没有太多。
It will depend on inspired leadership.	这将依赖于鼓舞人心的领导力。
Thank you, and God bless.	谢谢大家，上帝保佑你们。
However, these are just the tip of the iceberg.	而这也才只是冰山一角而已。
It's a beard trimmer, you see?	这是把剃须刀，看到了吧。
These are not glasses, these are empty frames.	我现在戴的只是没镜片的空镜框，
This is a full bottle of Calms Forte.	这儿是满满一瓶的安睡药片。
Oh, they gladly sell you that, yes.	哦，他们可真是巴不得卖给你们呢。
And I love you, and I'll always be with you.	我爱你们，永远和你们在一起。
She doesn't bring any useful information to us.	她不把有用的信息带给我们。
Now, this is a process that is called cold reading.	其中有个过程，所谓冷读术。
And that's the kind of information they're going to bring back to you?	那就是逝者要带回给人们的信息吗？
It was a game of hunting questions like this.	少来这种搜索问题的把戏。
This is what they go through.	他们无非就指着这套骗钱。
She gives you the names of your guardian angels, that's first.	首先，她会说出你的守护天使是谁。
It's very easy, win the million dollars.	谁做到了，就能轻易赢得百万美元。
And we haven't heard from her since. Strange.	奇怪的是，从此她就再没动静了。
I'm alive, you may have noticed.	你们也能看出来吧，我还活着，
Now these people need to be stopped, seriously now.	该出来阻止这伙人了，刻不容缓。
Homeopathy, let's find out what that's all about.	同种疗法，我们看看这是什么疗法。
Six and a half days, that certainly is a fatal dose.	六天半，当然是致命的剂量。
Why don't they affect me?	这些药对我怎麽不管用呀？
Diluting it down to the point where there's none of it left.	稀释到一定程度，淡化为乌有。
Now that is true. That is what homeopathy is all about.	事实上，同种疗法不过如此。
The poor man, he was on homeopathic medicine.	可怜的家伙，服用了同种疗法的药。
Well, with Sylvia Browne I would think so.	我想他们跟塞尔维亚布朗尼一伙。
Those are very important, critically important to us.	都是重大的事情。事关生存大计。
And we must do something about those problems.	我们必须努力解决那些问题。
She did accept and then backed away.	他确实接受挑战了，后来又退缩了。
I study health systems in these countries.	我在这些国家学习医疗系统
In the background there is a very sophisticated anesthesia machine.	背景是一台非常精密的麻醉器
This is the electrical supply for a hospital in rural Malawi.	这是马拉威一个乡下医院的供电情况
This hospital is connected to a very weak power grid, one that goes down frequently.	这家医院接入的电网非常弱经常停电
And the first surgery of the day happened to be an obstetrical case.	第一例手术正好是产科手术
Because her machine doesn't work when there's no power.	因为没有电机器就不能运转
Now let me show you a little bit about how this machine works.	现在我来解释一下它的运作原理
There's a built-in oxygen concentrator down there.	下面有一个内置的氧气集中器
Now you've heard me mention oxygen a few times at this point.	你已经听我提到过几次氧气了
The only difference is that now you're only working with 21 percent oxygen.	唯一的区别是你用的只是21％氧气
But we've put a long-life battery backup on here.	但我们有一个超常寿命的电池
This is the only part that's battery backed up.	这是唯一一部分依靠电池的
It's just a reality of anesthesia. The lungs can be paralyzed.	这是麻醉的现实情况肺部有可能麻痹
So it's a straightforward machine.	所以这是个操作简明的机器
I shudder to say simple; it's straightforward.	我不想说它简单而是操作简明
It's also designed for the environment that it will be used in.	而且它也是按其使用环境来设计的
This is an incredibly rugged machine.	这是个不可思议地很粗糙的机器
Some logos designed by my students.	这些是我的学生设计的商标
So it's a special-interest writing system.	所以是一个特殊群体的专用文字
And here we see three stages of development that it went through in 30 years.	这是它30年中经过的三个发展阶段
It's a syllabary and reads from left to right.	它是一种从左读的音节文字
Now, that is only a little bit hyperbolic.	只不过现在有一点夸张罢了。
And that's the direct result of eating a Western diet.	这就是西方饮食的直接结果。
Now global warming was unforeseen.	现在世界变暖还是不可预期的。
It's not the beta-carotene, it's the carrot.	不是β胡萝卜素，而是胡萝卜本身。
But back to animals and junk food.	但是问题又回到了动物和垃圾食品。
It was like your romantic vision of Europe.	这就像你所想象的欧洲浪漫的场景。
And fancy food was entirely French.	同时花式食物全部是源自法国。
You didn't claim to be anything.	你不用宣称什么其他的东西。
And again, everyone ate local.	并且每个人都吃当地产的食物。
Oranges became common in New York.	在纽约桔子也变得很常见了。
New drugs kept them healthy.	新型药物维持动物的健康。
Well, they kept them alive.	呃，是使动物们生存下去。
And chicken soon joined them on the throne.	同时鸡也迅速地加入了其中。
And this took care of the situation resoundingly.	这就造成了这种很严重的局面。
Similarly, let's look at a granola bar.	同样的，让我们看一下燕麦杆。
All you do is nuke it. What could be better?	你所做的只是烹饪它。还能更好吗？
And zapped horribly, pathetically.	并且屠杀很残忍，惨无人道。
Leading the way -- what's leading the way?	变得主导--什么是主导呢？
Now here is where we all meet.	现在这就是我们所面对的。
How much livestock do you need to produce this?	需要多少资源产生这些量呢？
It's a simple formula: eat food.	这是一个很简单的准则--吃食物。
And beef production uses 100 times the water that most vegetables do.	制造肉所使用的水是蔬菜的一百倍
And I thought about it, and I came up with one.	经过思考以后，我想出了一个
After all, cutting five days a week is cutting 70 percent of your meat intake.	毕竟五天不吃肉是减少七成的肉
And electronic tattoos also shout.	而且，电子纹身亦有喊叫般的力量
Here's what happened to this company.	这是这家公司后来发生的事——
If you won, she would marry you.	谁人若能胜她，她便以身相许；
If you lost, you died.	若是负败于她，她即索你性命。
How did Hippomenes beat her?	希波墨涅斯怎么跑赢她的呢？
The first is -- death is a big problem.	第一——死亡是一个重大的问题。
Can't see it because it's too big.	因为问题太大了，所以我们看不见。
Suppose we approximated one person with one book?	假设我们把一个人比作一本书，
Now, of course, this is an underestimation.	当然，这对人来说是低估的。
So that's the first big problem.	因此，这是第一个重大问题。
Existential risk -- the second big problem.	存在风险——第二个重大问题。
Now, why do I say that this is a big problem?	为什么我会认为这是一个重大问题？
I wrote a long paper on this.	我就这个问题写了一篇长篇论文
Or how bad it can be at its worst.	或在最差劲的时候是多么的糟糕。
I think that's a big, big problem.	我想这是一个非常，非常大的问题。
We got rid of all of these things.	我们摆脱了所有这些难题。
Is this the best we can do?	这真的是我们所能做的最好程度吗？
We have skin enhancements, clothing.	我们有改善皮肤的产品，服装。
These are really great things.	这些都是非常美妙的东西。
Bodily functionality and morphology and affective self-control.	身体功能、形态以及情感自我控制。
That's probably not all that difficult.	这也许并不是太难做到的事情。
It's been done in voles.	人们在田鼠身上做过这种实验。
Now, why is that a good thing to do?	那么，为什么这么做有益呢？
It's really unsatisfactory having plug-in art.	有意见要插电的艺术品的确不方便。
My sculptures are normally very simplified.	我的雕塑通常都十分简约。
My focus in recent years has kind of shifted more toward biology.	我近年的焦点某程度上转向了生物。
Oh, please, yes. Oh, I'm so there.	哦，天啊，我好像置身其中了。
Is that relevant to your work?	那么这是否与你的工作相关？
I mean, I've got the symptoms.	我的意思是，我有这些症状。
I'm left-handed, and so I draw.	我是左撇子，所以我画画。
You don't think of yourself as the master of these forces.	你不觉得自己是这些力量的主人。
You think of yourself as the servant.	相反，你觉得自己是它们的奴隶。
It's a terrific studio assistant.	这是个让人震惊的工作室助手。
Five years later, an unexpected silver lining.	5年之后，出现了意想不到的希望，
Only, we don't know that it's a homeless shelter.	只有我们认为那个不是收容所。
But he did have one thing.	但他确实拥有了一件财富。
So I thought, a biennial needs artists.	我想，双年展需要艺术家。
So I should start to talk about these guys.	我该开始谈谈这些艺术家。
I'm under the river with those fish.	我在河里和这些鱼在一起。
And she's making weather on her body's scale.	她以她的身体为准来制造天气。
And the ones that are the most sought after are the ones that are only barely scratched off.	那些最火的作品是最难刮中的。
And in this one it's called "Drawing the Short Stick."	这幅作品名为"画这根短棍。"
What he did was to get wild birds to make his art for him.	他做的就是让野生鸟类为他创作。
This one's called "Mixtape Love Song's Nest."	这名为"自选恋曲之巢。"
Sylvia's interested in art training.	西维亚的兴趣在艺术培训。
She's a very serious Swiss artist.	她是位非常严肃的瑞士艺术家。
We just have that natural way of seeing.	我们仅仅是利用了视觉的自然方式。
They're butterfly specimens who have a natural camouflage.	它们是有着自然伪装的蝴蝶标本。
And he pairs these up with paintings.	他把他们配对起来用于绘画。
Like this is a painting of a snake in a box.	就像是一条蛇在盒子里的绘画。
This is a typical angora embroidery for them.	这是他们典型的安哥拉毛刺绣。
And he's reworking a Confucian art tradition of scholar stones.	他在重做儒家艺术传统的学者石。
This is from a short film, "Adventures with Skinny."	这来自一部短片，"皮包骨历险记"
It ties to origami. So let me start.	这与折纸有关。下面我就开始了。
Every Japanese kid learns how to fold that crane.	每个日本孩子都学折纸鹤。
And that leads to a very powerful tool.	这就形成了一种强大的工具。
And they're very simple, easy to understand.	它们非常简单，并且很好理解。
And I can put it in this simple equation.	我可以用一个简单的等式来解释。
What matters is what we mean by those symbols.	重要的是这些符号代表什么。
I start with my idea. I abstract it.	我先从我的构思开始，使它抽象化。
What's the most abstract form? It's a stick figure.	什么是最抽象的形式呢？线条画。
Take an idea, draw a stick figure.	做出一个构思，画一幅线条图。
We're going to learn how to make one flap.	我们要学习怎样做一个片状物。
How would you make a single flap?	你会怎样叠一个片状物呢？
I can use it for something else.	我可以用剩下的部分做点别的。
So now we're ready to scale up.	现在让我们来提升到新的水平。
What do I need? I need a lot of circles.	我需要什么？我需要很多的圆。
And you say, "Well, you know, how simple is that?"	你们可能问"那能有多简单呢？"
These techniques revolutionized this art.	这些技术改革了这门艺术。
The telescope, going up in space, it unfolds in two places.	这架进入太空的望远镜在两处展开。
So, imagine a lens the size of a football field.	所以镜片有一个橄榄球场那么大。
How do you make a large sheet of glass smaller?	怎么把一大片玻璃变小呢？
And this example is the latter.	这个例子就是进入人身体的。
And so they can do a simulation like this.	所以设计师可以做一个这个的模仿。
It's twice the range of any electric motorcycle.	是其他普通电动摩托车速度的两倍
Certainly this is not the first time that we've had great progress with women.	当然这不是女性第一次的巨大进步。
The '20s and the '60s also come to mind.	又比如二十年代和六十年代。
That particular headline comes to me from a market research firm.	这个标题来源于一个市场调查公司。
This has been going on for 40 years now.	这已经持续发生了四十年。
You'll see the women in red, and you'll see the men in blue.	红色的是女人，蓝色的是男人。
What it's about is that the economy has changed a lot.	其原因就是经济变化了很多。
But that's not what an ideal leader is like now.	但是这不再是今天的理想化领导。
Well it turns out that they're just very uncomfortable doing that.	事实上他们对此感到十分的不舒服。
So for some reason men just don't end up going back to college.	因此，男人最终不能返回学校。
I mean they have much larger vocabulary.	我是说她们有更多的词汇量。
And this was very disheartening for them.	这对他们来说是十分的沮丧的。
That's from 1985 to 2003.	是从一九八五年到二零零三年。
And they come up in lots of different forms.	他们以很多不同的形式出现。
We have the charmless misanthrope.	我们有毫无魅力愤世嫉俗者。
And it's not just for the young, right?	不仅仅是那些年轻人，对吧。
Now I've never really liked this term.	现在我们将永远不会喜欢这个术语。
There's no hole in the middle that you're going to fall through.	这中间没有会令你掉下去的洞。
So yeah, this task does seem to be daunting.	所以，这个任务似乎异常艰难。
We are trying to shoot lasers into the brain.	我们要试着向大脑发射镭射光。
Do I shake their hand? Do I turn around and run away?	我要和他们握手吗？还是转身就跑？
It's sort of like making a remix tape.	这就像制作一段混音录音。
How do we push this technology forward?	又如何将这一技术继续推进呢？
And finally I ended up encountering psychology by chance.	最终则是意外的与心理学结了缘
And he says by describing it as an ecstatic state.	他讲的时候也是一种狂喜的状态
So ecstasy is essentially a stepping into an alternative reality.	换言之狂喜就是一种超越寻常的感觉
We know about the circuses, the arenas, the theaters.	还有马戏团的故事斗兽场戏院
But it happens in other activities.	在其他的领域也会发生这样的事情
But you have a kind of a set point there, which would be in the middle.	同样在中间的地方会有一个固定的点
And then the other areas become less and less positive.	而其他的区域则变得相对更加消极
Relaxation is fine -- you still feel OK.	休息是好的因为你还能感到舒适
Unfortunately, a lot of people's experience is in apathy.	遗憾的是很多人所经历的大多是冷漠
And that is the kind of challenge that we're trying to understand.	我们正在慢慢的解开其中的秘密
I literally couldn't point to any physical construction.	我根本无法指向任何建筑物。
My home would have to be whatever I carried around inside me.	我的家只能存在于我的心里了。
You can't take anything for granted.	你不能把所以事情当成理所当然。
Suddenly you're alert to the secret patterns of the world.	突然间你开始留意世界的神秘之处。
This was the wrong answer.	那不是一个适合我的好去处。
And when I got out of my car, the air was pulsing.	我下车后，空气像脉动般流淌。
It was really a presence of a kind of energy or quickening.	那真是活力和朝气的象征。
And at my feet was the great, still blue plate of the Pacific Ocean.	我脚下是浩瀚静谧的太平洋。
And by the time I got up, four hours had passed.	当我搁笔时，已经过去了4个小时。
And it really seemed like my concerns of the previous day vanishing.	我前一天的担忧似乎消失无踪。
Adding some intelligence with a microcontroller.	加上一个高级一点的控制器
Pretty cool, huh? We think so.	很酷吧！我们也这么觉得。
And they lived away then.	而且他们的生活相对隔离。
This was the economic level at which Sweden was.	这就是当时瑞典的经济水平。
They were saving to be able to buy a pair of shoes.	而他们存钱是想买一双鞋。
And of course, there's been economic growth in the West.	而且当然的，西方的经济也增长了。
And now their aspiration is not only to have a car.	现在人们所想的不是买辆车。
Well, I'm going to project into 2050.	好的，我现在要穿越到2050年。
All the projections [say that] this one [billion] will [only] grow with one to two or three percent.	未来--这个会长一到两个百分比。
And they will start to buy electric cars.	他们才会开始购买电子汽车。
This is what we will find there.	这就是我们在这里发现的。
Because we already have this [growth] in process.	因为我们已经在这个进程中了。
Here I have on the screen my country bubbles.	在屏幕上显示的是国家泡泡。
And the population will double in one generation.	而且人口会在下一代翻倍。
This will not happen [again].	这种情况不会再继续下去了。
But it's a very important role.	但是是一个十分重要的角色。
And I as a child was fed cod liver oil by my grandmother.	小时候，祖母就给我吃过。
And the evidence for it preventing cancers is not yet great.	它预防癌症的证据还不太具说服力
It's not the only reason preventing heart disease.	它不是预防心脏病的唯一原因。
So it's not just in the cardiovascular system it arises.	所以它不只是在心血管系统中才出现
How do you have low blood pressure in your skin?	你皮肤上怎么能有低血压呢？
And I was interested in these really complex systems.	我对这些超级复杂的系统感兴趣。
So they're really an ideal model.	所以说，他们真是理想的模特。
But this is a separate mechanism from vitamin D.	但这是一个与维生素D相分离的机制
That is an absolutely fundamental physiological principle.	这是一个绝对的基本生理原则。
There is no change in blood flow, in dilatation of the blood vessels.	血流量没有变化，血管也没有扩张
In winter or summer, it's the same amount of light.	无论冬夏，光照的量是相同的
It's great. Lots of NO is released.	这太棒了，释放了很多的一氧化氮
Ventura mid-winter, well, there's still a decent amount.	文图拉的隆冬，结果也不错
We think it's very important.	我们认为这项研究非常重要
Certainly many advances, many lives saved.	当然有很多进步，拯救了很多生命，
That really has to do with our aging population.	这主要是因为我们老龄化的人口。
This is actually a very stunning statistic.	这事实上是非常惊人的数据，
Wouldn't it be great if our bodies could regenerate?	若我们的身体能再生岂不是很好？
And that scar actually grows out a new limb.	这个伤疤会长出来一条新腿。
So, salamanders can do it.	所以，火蜥蜴能做到再生。
Your bones regenerate every 10 years.	你的骨骼会每十年再生一次，
Your skin regenerates every two weeks.	你的皮肤每两周再生一次。
So, your body is constantly regenerating.	所以，你的身体一直再进行着再生。
The challenge occurs when there is an injury.	当受伤时，我们就有挑战了。
So, how can we harness that power?	那我们要怎么管理这种能力呢？
This is the channel that connects the bladder to the outside of the body.	这是连接膀胱与身体外部的通道。
This was an injured urethra on the left side.	这是在左边的一个受伤的尿道。
The maximum efficient distance for regeneration is only about one centimeter.	再生细胞能走的最大距离是1厘米。
And that's what we did for this piece of muscle.	这就是我们为这块肌肉进行的治疗。
Very similar to what we just did, but a little bit more complex.	非常类似于刚才的情况，但更复杂
And what we do is we, to make a blood vessel, same strategy.	我们用同样的战略来造一根血管。
We grow the cells outside the body in large quantities.	在体外，大量培植那些细胞
We coat the inside with these bladder lining cells.	在内部，我们把衬细胞植入
We coat the outside with these muscle cells.	在外部，我们植入肌肉细胞
And I'm sure everyone here wanted an extra-large. Right?	我想大家都想要加大号，是吧？
So, bladders are definitely a little bit more complex than the other structures.	所以，膀胱肯定比其它结构更复杂。
This is actually a heart valve, which we engineered.	这是我们制造出的一个心脏瓣膜
This is actually a simple solid organ like the ear.	这是一个简单的实质器官，像耳朵
This is actually digits that we're engineering.	这记录了我们的制造过程，
This is actually one of the strategies. We use a printer.	这是其中之一。我们使用一个打印机
It's actually printing this two chamber heart, one layer at a time.	它实际上打印出了两个心室一次一层
You can see, actually that's a fluoroscopy.	你看，这实际上是荧光显影术。
We're actually injecting contrast into the organ.	实际上，我们注射显影剂到器官里
Why? Because they will not reject.	为什么？因为它们不会有排斥反应。
We don't need to teach it to become another cell type.	我们不用教它变成另一种细胞。
And for those we still need stem cells.	对于那些我们还需要干细胞的，
So, these are very tough technologies.	所以，这些是非常难的科技。
So, I always like to show this cartoon.	所以，我总是给大家看这个卡通
This is how to stop a runaway stage.	这展示了怎么样阻止一个失控的车。
I'm a surgeon so that's not that funny.	我是个医生，所以不是那么好笑。
I'm going to show a clip of one young lady.	我给你们看一个年轻女性的短片
She had a spina bifida defect, a spinal cord abnormality.	她有先天的脊椎裂，一种脊椎异常。
If you teach a man to fish, you feed him for a lifetime."	"授人以鱼不如授人以渔"
They teach them to go work in corporations.	而是教学生去公司里如何工作
But kids could be entrepreneurs as well.	但孩子们也可以成为企业家
All three of the founders of Netscape had it.	网景公司的三个创办人都有此症
I could go on and on.	我还可以说出很多这样的例子
In managerial accounting, I'm chapter eight.	管理会计学的第八章中有提到我
I open up chapter eight talking about budgeting.	我是第八章讲授预算的引子
It doesn't mean you have to get through school.	也不代表你一定要从学校顺利毕业
Is it thing one or thing two? What is it?	是前者还是后者？究竟是哪一个？
I was groomed as an entrepreneur.	我从小就被训练成为企业家
And I said, "Let's go and look in the basement."	我说，"我们去地下室瞧瞧吧。"
And there was about a thousand coat hangers that I'd collected.	里面有近一千个我收集的晾衣架
So I was just like, well there's all kinds of coat hangers.	所以我想，有很多种晾衣架呀
I sold license plate protectors door to door.	我还挨家挨户卖过汽车牌照保护膜
I learned that at a young age.	我很小的时候就学到了这个道理
You've got this demand over here that has money.	这边既有需求又有着大把的钞票
So I would collect the tips and get payment.	于是我便收起了小费来赚钱
He had all these old automotive parts lying around.	工厂里闲置着一些旧的汽车零部件
They had this old brass and copper.	零部件都是铜做的，很旧了
And I thought that was kind of cool.	我当时觉得这样做很有意思
So I actually spray painted a whole bunch of them brown.	于是我把很多针垫喷涂成褐色
It was, "Which color would you like?"	而是说,"你想要哪种颜色的？"
Right, like cutting lawns is brutal.	对吗，像割草工作就很辛苦
And then I'd just deliver pop and I'd just charge twice.	于是我会买给她们并收取2倍的价钱
I went and got golf balls from golf courses.	我去高尔夫球场上找高尔夫球
But the problem is that people all didn't want all the golf balls.	当问题是人们并不想要旧的高尔夫球
So I just packaged them. I'm like 12, right?	所以我将球打包，一包有一打球
And they could use those for practice balls.	那些球可以被当作训练用球
But it paid the bills.	但这样做我可以付得起我自己的账单
So I sold lots and lots of sunglasses.	于是我卖了很多很多的太阳镜
Supply, demand, big opportunity.	货源，需求，赚大钱的商机
Why don't you teach them not to waste money?	为什么你不去教他们不要乱花钱？
Allowances teach kids the wrong habits.	零花钱会让孩子们养成坏习惯
An entrepreneur doesn't expect a regular paycheck.	而企业家从不期望得到工资条
Come to me and tell me what it is.	然后告诉我需要做的是什么
And then you know what we do? We negotiate.	你知道我们会怎么做吗？我们会商谈
But then we negotiate on what they're going to get paid.	但是我们会商谈应该付给他们多少钱
But I'm teaching them to force that savings habit.	我教育他们养成储蓄的好习惯
Show them the grumpy employees.	把脾气坏的员工给他们指出来
But teach them how to fix the price, guess the price, pull up the photos.	但要教他们怎样定价和估价以及
Teach them how to do that kind of stuff and make money.	教他们如何通过这种方式来赚钱
Bipolar disorder is nicknamed the CEO disease.	双相障碍被戏称为首席执行官综合症
I'm not saying don't get kids to want to be lawyers.	我不是说不要孩子们长大后当律师
Because there's huge opportunities in that.	因为这样做会给我们带来很多的机会
I want to close with a quick little video.	我想以一个简短的视频作为结束
These guys, Grasshopper.	制作视频的人他们自称为"蝗虫"
They were trying to figure out how to rebuild their universities.	他们那时正计划重建大学体系
We have even managed to make the study of literature arcane.	甚至于让文学也变得索然无味
So the conversation began at Bennington.	于是我们从本宁顿开始有对话
They would assume the commanding role of traditional disciplines.	学生仍将体会到原有课程之意义
Design, the art of organizing the world of things.	包括设计即整理世界万物之艺术
But it is a politics of principle, not of partisanship.	讲的是原则而不是多党对抗
So the challenge for Bennington is to do it.	本宁顿的任务就是推行这样的做法
Now, I know what you're thinking.	现在我知道你们在想什么。
Okay, speaker Lawrence Lessig, right.	好的，演讲者劳伦斯莱斯格，对了。
And ... Wikipedia is fixed, finally.	维基百科最终还是被修正了
Okay, but no, this is really besides the point.	好吧，这已超出我们的话题了。
They are in many important places against markets.	他们无处不在与市场背道而驰
That's the thing I want you to think about them.	那是我想让大家思考的东西
Okay, so Julian made this video.	好，所以朱利安制作了这个短片
They decided they wanted to do the same.	他们决定做一个相同的作品
They are acting in the sense that they're emulating the original mashup.	他们即兴表演模仿原来的混音
This man was a remixer extraordinaire.	他才是一位杰出的再创作大师
He is the celebration and ideal of exactly this kind of creativity.	他值得称颂拥有这种创造力
There is no creator here to be recognized.	在这里没有公认的创作者。
The creator is a sharecropper in this story.	在故事里，创作者成了农民工。
And I felt like I was in third grade again.	我感到我回到了小学三年级，
Not a single example of reform has been produced yet.	没有一例改革的例子被推动过。
Openness is a commitment to a certain set of values.	开放式一种奉献奉献一系列的价值。
It's a value respecting the creator.	它具有尊重创造者的价值。
And he wadded up the clay horse and he threw it back in the bin.	把陶土小马捏成一团，扔进了垃圾箱
So I've been looking at this fear of judgment that we have.	所以我一直在研究这种评价恐惧症
But Bandura has a step-by-step process that was super successful.	班杜拉有一套极为成功的步骤
Bandura calls this process "guided mastery."	班杜拉称之为"引导性掌控"
We see it at the d.school all the time.	我们不断在斯坦福设计学院看到
He was saving lives with this machine.	他觉得自己的这台机器能拯救生命
And now when the kid comes, it's an experience.	对孩子们来说这是一次独特体验
And the hospital and GE were happy too.	医院和通用电气公司对此都很高兴
But Doug's results that he cared about were much more qualitative.	但道格真正在乎的是定性结论
Mostly you think about, Am I going to survive?	多数时间是想"我能活下来吗？"
What was my calling? What should I do?	我的使命是什么？我应该做什么？
And I was lucky because I had lots of options.	我很幸运，因为有很多选择
And if I was going to survive, that's what I wanted to do.	如果我活下来，我就去做这件事
If there is one for me, this is it. To help this happen.	对于我来说，就是让这一切发生
The way that you look at this data is, first, look around the outside of the circle.	浏览数据的方法是先观察圆圈外围
Let's take a look at what's going on in different space types in this building.	我们看看建筑中不同类型空间的情况
And I also like to think of offices as being a temperate grassland.	我也喜欢将办公室想成温带草原
I am collaborating with Charlie Brown.	我与CharlieBrown合作
There's a new microbe, I just discovered it.	我不久前发现一种新型微生物
So let's just run through these guys.	那么我们一个一个地说说这些人。
And nobody knew anything about it.	并且没有人知道关于它的任何事。
And he proposed this machine called the memex.	他提议把这个机器命名为麦麦克斯。
And he said, "I need to talk to you."	他说，"我需要和你聊一聊。"
And I saw it, and I thought, yep, that's it.	我看到了，我认为，就这样了。
So that puts me in pretty illustrious company.	因此我进了非常著名的公司。
In fact, they make their livings on this kind of stuff.	实际上，他们就是靠这东西为生的。
That's what you'd call a social news website.	这是一个社交型新闻网站。
These humpback whales were getting killed.	那里的座头鲸正遭受杀戮。
I believe this is a Farsi word for "immortal."	我相信这是波斯语中的"不朽"。
That is, as long as you can keep net neutrality in place.	只要网络能保持它的中立性。
But no longer is the message going to be coming from just the top down.	但秘诀并不再是大人物掌控一切。
I am a native of Burkina Faso.	我是土生土长的布基纳法索人
But what to do with this privilege?	但是，我还能多做些什么呢？
I just wanted to use my skills and build a school.	我想用我的技能来修建一所学校
The innovation was to build a clay vault.	创新之处是建造一个粘土拱顶
The community is looking. It still works.	村民们一直看着它。它仍然坚固不倒
So we can build.	这样一来，我们就可以开工了
The kids are happy, and they love it.	孩子们都很高兴，他们很喜欢它
Something we have in Gando are clay pots.	在冈多，我们有很多陶土罐
We wanted to use them to create openings.	我们想用陶土罐来制造一些通风口
Another factor in Gando is rain.	冈多的另一个气候因素是雨
We take the sand, we mix it with clay, and we keep building.	收集沙子，和粘土混合然后继续建造
But you will be surprised. I'm still alive.	但你们感到惊讶的是，我还活着
I have won a lot of awards through this work.	通过这些项目，我赢得了许多奖项
For sure, it has opened opportunities.	肯定的是，它创造了一些机会
In my culture, this is a symbol of deep affection.	在我的文化里，这象征着感情的深厚
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.	谢谢。谢谢。谢谢。谢谢。
They're a little bigger. They're a prototype.	它比较大一点，是一个原型机。
Let me show you what I mean.	我来给你们展示我所说的意思。
I don't literally mean 24 hours, seven days a week.	我不是真的指24小时，一周七天。
The odds of getting it are 4,165 to one.	得到这样的机率是4165分之一。
China is going to change the world in two fundamental respects.	中国将在两个基本方面上改变世界。
Well, I think it has all sorts of profound implications.	那么我想这有很多种深刻的含义。
You may remember what the Chinese constitutional proposition was.	大家能记得中国宪法体制是什么吗？
And I'll lay a wager that barely anyone in the West believed them.	我会打赌在西方没有人会信这一套。
When China gets its hands on Hong Kong, that won't be the case."	当中国政府接手香港，这不可能。"
The Chinese don't feel like that.	中国人没有感到过多民族。
This is as close as China gets to a kind of spiritual role.	这也接近中国有种精神象征的作用。
It's had no serious rivals.	它没有真正的对手可抗衡。
Know that China believes in the market and the state.	要知道中国人相信市场和国有。
Targets for the economy and so on are set by the state.	国家设置了经济目标等等。
We refuse to really address the issue of difference.	我们拒绝真正承认问题的不同面。
Now the largest economic region in the world.	现在是全球最大的经济区域。
Europe was not at the final negotiating table.	欧洲没有出现在最后讨论谈判桌上。
When did that last happen?	上次欧洲置之事外是在什么时候？
I mean, Europe once, of course, once commanded the future in its confidence.	当然，我指欧洲曾自信地引领未来。
And it does speeds of up to about 100 miles an hour.	它的时速可达每小时约100英里。
Okay, so how would I like to finish?	好吧，那么我会怎样来做结论呢？
That's what Europe and North America represented.	这是以欧洲和北美为代表的。
It's been eight years, and I can tell you that I didn't go to China to become a lawyer.	八年过去了我没去中国当律师
And after a few months I was writing songs.	几个月之后我就开始自己写歌
And the first song I wrote was in English, and the second one was in Chinese.	第一首是用英文写的第二首是中文
And I've played thousands of shows.	这期间我参加过数以千计的表演
And I know U.S.-China relations doesn't need another lawyer.	我知道中美关系不再需要一个律师了
You have to make a wish to save the world."	你得许个能拯救世界的心愿。"
I would control it directly with the public in the streets.	我把决定权交给街上的路人。
November 2005: the streets are burning.	2005年11月，街道陷入火海。
I mean, these were the faces of my friends.	这些，可都是我朋友的面孔啊，
All of them are not angels, but they're not monsters either.	他们不是天使，但也不是魔鬼。
So you can do it only with their trust.	因此只有有了他们信任才能做到。
So could art change the world?	那么，艺术能够改变世界吗？
The experts said, "No way.	那些专家曾说，"不可能，
And those ones are actually two taxi-drivers."	这两个，都是出租车司机。"
When you paste an image, it's just paper and glue.	贴一张照片，只需要胶水和纸，
I called that project Women Are Heroes.	我称这个计划为，女人是英雄，
Sometimes there was no words, no sentence, just tears.	有时候没有只言片语，只有泪水。
Women Are Heroes took me around the world.	"女人是英雄"让我周游各国，
So I went out and I started with the kids.	于是我又开始拍照，从拍孩子开始。
I wanted them to feel that this art belongs to them.	因为我希望他们觉得艺术就在手中。
You see that enough in the media.	你们在媒体上已经看得够多了，
What I want to show is the incredible life and energy.	我想展现的是这里难以置信的生活，
Everyone there understood the project.	但那里的每个人都理解我们所做的，
And then we pasted everywhere -- the whole hill.	后来，我们将照片贴满整座山。
I mean, you should see that.	我们当时就看着那些媒体，
Some people question, "Why is it in black and white?	有人问，"为什么只有黑白色？
And then it becomes more.	渐渐的，越来越多人加入了进来，
It becomes a desire, a need, an armor.	人们想要加入，这成了他们的需要。
So we decided to paste white, white on the walls.	所以我们决定糊白纸，把墙糊白了。
So imagine white guys pasting white papers.	想象一下，白人糊白墙的景象，
For each project we do a film.	我们所有行动，构成了一部电影，
And the photos kept traveling even without us.	照片不断在传播，无论有没有我们。
Behind each image is a story.	每一个画面背后，都是一个故事。
We did that in most of the places.	我们在很多地方都这么做，
But tell me, advertising for what?	可是请问，我在为什么做广告呢？
But they asked me for a promise basically.	但他们只向我提了一个基本的要求，
You understand the full scope of the project.	大家看到的是这个行动的全貌。
It doesn't matter today if it's your photo or not.	现在用谁的摄影作品并不是重点，
In some ways, art can change the world.	某种程度上说，艺术能够改变世界。
Art can create an analogy.	艺术能让人产生共鸣和联想，
Or, "How can we help?"	另一种反应是，"我能做些什么。"
I wanted that wish to actually start now.	我希望这场行动，即刻启动。
What we see changes who we are.	我们所看到的，能改变我们的人生，
And this starts right now and depends on you.	活动已经开始，主动掌握在你手中。
I'm speaking to you about what I call the "mesh."	今天我要谈的话题，我称之为"网"
Secondly, population growth and density into cities.	第二，人口增长和城市密度增加
It allows us to engage in really new and interesting ways.	我们得以用新奇有趣的方式沟通
They made it sexy. They made it fresh.	他们添加了性感和新鲜的元素
They made sure that the demographic for who they were targeting and the car was all matching.	他们确保了汽车与目标市场特征相符
They understand that they are an information company.	他们知道自己只是信息公司
They're in really good shape to anticipate what we're going to want next.	他们很擅长去猜测我们的潜在需求
So it's like vacation rentals for cars.	把度假别墅租赁的概念用到汽车上
It allows us as owners to have other options.	同时也为车主提供了其他选择
So, for example, city departments can open up transit data.	例如，城市部门能公开运输数据
Essentially, there are all sorts of restaurants in Oakland, near where I live.	在奥克兰我家附近有各种餐厅
And the opportunity to really focus trust and attention is a wonderful thing.	能聚集信任和关注是件很棒的事
It's very cost-effective, and it's very mesh-y.	低投入、高产出网状特性很强
The future, as we know it, is very unpredictable.	众所周知，未来是变幻莫测的。
And this change is getting more rapid.	而且这种变化的速度越来越快。
The last 40 years have been extraordinary times.	过去的40年是非比寻常的40年。
But there is an underbelly.	可是，全球化并不是完美无缺的。
It will create huge opportunities in technology.	这将给科技领域带来无限的机遇。
This is a dust mite on a nanoreplica.	尘螨下面是一台纳米自我复制机。
This would imply a massive leap in migration.	这意味着一轮移民潮的到来。
And then, the systemic risks.	那么接着就是-系统性风险。
How do we begin to weave these tapestries together?	这盘"大杂烩"我们该如何炒呢？
I don't play sports. I'm really bad at sports.	我不怎么运动。我特别不擅长体育。
I have to tell you a little bit about my family.	我得告诉你们一些我家人的事情。
That's my mother. I love her to bits.	这是我妈妈。我爱她的全部。
I must have done about 30,000 caricatures.	我大概花了三万幅卡通画。
When I was 18 I started my own school.	十八岁的时候我开办了自己的学校。
I went to the place where his helicopter was about to land.	我去了他的直升飞机要着陆的地方。
I saw layers of security.	我看见一排一排的警戒、保镖。
The next slide I'm about to show you, is a little more serious.	下一张幻灯片是稍微严肃一些的。
Anyway, what I did was I decided that I need to take a break.	后来，我决定给自己放个假。
They had to be larger than life.	这些画作比生活中的都要大。
And for me it was, I had to dance while I painted.	所以我作画的时候不得不跳起舞来。
And, all of a sudden, my paintings came alive.	突然之间，我的画活动起来了。
And I sat like you guys there in the audience.	我当时就像你们一样坐在观众席，
And I saw my work come alive.	然后看着我的画被赋予生命。
This is a fashion show we held in London.	这是我们在伦敦的一个时装秀。
The best collaboration, of course, is with children.	最好的合作当然是和孩子们一起。
And since then, I've been painting all over the place.	从那以后，我到哪里都会画画。
I lived in India. She lived in America.	我住在印度。她住在美国。
I have to travel seven oceans, and I have to come and see you.	我得穿过七片海域，去见你。"
I did that twice, and I went broke.	我只坚持了两次就破产了。
She contacted anyone and everyone who was willing to buy my work.	她联系了所有愿意买我画的人。
Notice one thing, we're equal here.	注意，我们在这里是平等的。
150 artists volunteered to help me with my wedding.	150个艺术家自愿帮我们办婚礼。
I had the vegetable carvers work on that for me.	还有一个蔬菜雕刻家帮我做了这个。
I had shows booked up for another year.	我的画展已经有预约到第二年，
And I couldn't. I could not.	但我不能开画展。我真的不行。
I could not live this larger than life person.	我没法继续实现伟大的梦想了。
I started exploring the darker abscesses of the human mind.	我开始探索人性的黑暗一面。
My works also turned autobiographical.	我的作品也开始倾向自传性质。
It turned nasty, and I'm a bit of a chicken.	这糟透了。我也有点畏缩。
So, I decided it was time to end and go back home.	当时我想，是时候卷铺盖回家了。
How can a family get dysfunctional?	一个家庭是怎样出乱子的？
And two magical things happened after he was born.	他出生之后，两个奇迹发生了。
You know I sat at home and I watched.	我当时是在家看选举结果的。
I moved back to New York, my work has changed.	我搬到了纽约，画的风格也变了。
This one is called "What the Fuck Was I Thinking?"	这幅叫做"我到底在想些什么？"
It talks about mental incest.	它是关于心理上的乱伦的。
But I'm not. I'm capable of thinking anything.	但我不是。我什么都能想得出来。
But I'm very civil in my action, I assure you.	但我保证我的行为还是很文明的。
They, in fact, told me three weeks.	其实他们告诉我她只剩三个礼拜。
For me, my art is my magic carpet ride.	对我来说，艺术就是我的神奇魔毯。
It would be very dangerous if you fell down.	如果你摔倒的话，会非常危险。
She's going to make me do it, too. Ooh, ooh.	她也让我一起跳。噢，噢。
Can you sing "Happy Birthday" to him?	你能为他唱"生日快乐"吗？
Why do we want to protect your home?	我们为什么要保护你的家园？
And this routine went on for some time.	这个惯例持续了一段时间。
You could jump off the end into the deep end.	你能从船坞尽头跳进湖的深处。
I was born premature. I was always very small.	我是早产儿。我一直个子很小。
My left lung had collapsed when I was born.	从出生起，我的左肺就闭合了。
And I've always had buoyancy problems.	因此我身体的浮力一向不好。
And I went wild eyed and thought I was going to die.	我慌得不行，以为自己要完蛋了。
From that point onward I was terrified of swimming.	从那时起，我对游泳产生了恐惧。
That is when I realized that I was not the Incredible Hulk.	那让我意识到，我并不是绿巨人。
But there is a happy ending to this story.	但这个故事有了一个好结局。
Hand paddles, everything.	划手板什么的我统统试过。
That set me on the road to examining biomechanics.	这使我踏上了探索生物力学的旅程。
So it turns out that propulsion isn't really the problem.	其实推进力并非问题的关键所在。
And you do that by maintaining a horizontal body position.	你通过保持身体水平做到这一点。
So let's look at some examples. This is Terry.	我们来看一些例子。这是泰瑞。
And so his entire body really is underwater.	因此他全身其实都在水下。
So you don't kick. But you do use a small flick.	你并不踢水，而是轻微地拨水。
And I'll get to implicit versus explicit in a moment.	我一会儿会谈内隐和外显的区别。
And I wouldn't even catch the response. A sad state of affairs.	而且我连回答都听不懂。凄凉得很。
You'll have Japanese language classes every day to help you cope.	你每天都会上日语课，帮你适应。
I couldn't believe I was on the other side of the world.	我不敢相信我来到了世界的另一端。
And a teacher came up to me and handed me a piece of paper.	一位老师走过来，递给我一张纸。
Asked him what this said.	我问他这上面说的是什么。
Nothing worked until I found this.	什么都没有用，直到我发现了这个。
And this became my Holy Grail, my Rosetta Stone.	这成了我的圣杯，我的罗塞塔石碑
You can also do this with grammar.	你能够将这个原则应用在语法上。
We can talk about that if anyone in interested.	如果有人感兴趣，我们可以深入谈。
I used to be much bigger, much more muscular.	我之前很壮实，有很多肌肉。
She was very pissed off that I had pulled her from her advanced practice.	她对我打断她的进阶练习很是不满。
So I bought a month's worth of classes.	于是我买了一个月的课程。
He didn't lead with his chest, which requires you lean forward.	他并不用胸领舞，那样你要前倾。
So he can lift the woman to break her, for example.	因此他能抱起女方，比如说。
That's just one benefit of that.	那仅仅是其中的一个优点。
So fear is your friend. Fear is an indicator.	恐惧是你的朋友。恐惧是一个指标。
More often than not it shows you exactly what you should do.	但更多时候，它恰恰告诉你该做什么
Especially with fears you gained when you were a child.	尤其是对于你从小时候就有的恐惧。
Apply them to very big dreams.	借助它们实现伟大的梦想。
I know nothing. I'm a beginner.	我一无所知。我是个初学者。
And the design we came up with had the following characteristics.	我们设计的这个想法有以下这些特点
It's happened almost entirely without big money behind it.	几乎完全没有雄厚资金的背后支持
And this one is focused on creative and media industries.	这家学校专注在创造性和媒体产业
And my hope is that some of you out there may be able to help us.	我希望在座的朋友可以给予我们帮助
I had basically digested away my body.	基本上我已经消化光了自己的身体
I gotta get back out my baseball ability here.	显然我的棒球技能已经不比当年了
So people are really into cleanliness, right?	人们真的很重视清洁,是吗？
I'm sure many people here have heard about probiotics.	我相信在座的许多人听说过益生菌群
And they definitely have been shown to be effective in some cases.	已经有一些使用益生菌的成功案例
We can't see it most of the time. It's invisible.	很多时候我们看不到它。它是隐形的
They're microbes. They're tiny.	它们是微生物，微小的生物。
We are them. They are us.	我们就是它们。它们就是我们
It's a very unusual and chaotic thing.	这是一件非常不寻常和混乱的事情。
So how do we do this?	所以我们怎样做到这个的？
How does it work?	怎样使--它如何工作的？
There's no reason to have a big argument about it.	对于这样的情况不会存在大的争议。
And it also matters who the people are who are voting.	它也跟这些人是谁和谁在投票有关。
So how's all this governed?	所以这些全部是怎样管理的？
Well, they managed to get 18 people to show up.	那么，他们设法让18个人出面。
But I think there's going to be huge impacts.	但是我认为会有很大的冲击。
Around the world, people love.	世界各地的人都有不同的爱情。
They tell myths and legends about love.	人们讲述关于爱情的神话和传说。
But love isn't always a happy experience.	但爱情并不总是愉快的经历。
Almost nobody gets out of love alive.	要活着走出爱情几乎是不可能的。
I am told you will go from here.	你对我说，你将从这里出发；
My body is numb with grief.	我因此悲痛，因此失去知觉。
Remember what I said, my love.	带上我的只言片语，我的爱人！
Romantic love is one of the most powerful sensations on Earth.	爱情是世上最有力的感情。
Somebody is camping in your head.	——他一直盘踞在你脑中。
And the obsession can get worse when you've been rejected.	当你被抛弃之后，牵挂会更深。
And indeed, we now know why.	时至今日，我们知道这是为什么了。
And indeed, it has all of the characteristics of addiction.	确然，爱情拥有成瘾的所有特征，
It's been about eight months, she's beginning to feel better.	经过了八个月，她终于好多了。
As a matter of fact ethologists know this.	事实上，生态学家知道这些。
There are still many questions to be answered and asked about romantic love.	关于爱情还有很多未解开的迷。
And so, I've spent the last three years on this.	所以，这三年我都在思考这个问题。
I think there's biology to that.	我认为这一定有生物学上的解释。
This is intimacy to women.	这就是女性相互理解的方式。
I also researched extensively on bows around the world.	我当时还广泛研究世界各地的弓，
Thanks to my ancestors for robbing me of my invention.	感谢列祖列宗，抢了我的发明。
Now, I am going to show you how my bow works.	现在，请看我的弓怎么样。
You need to console and communicate with the wood material.	您要安抚联络这些木头材料。
Now, I am shooting a part of myself to you.	现在，我正把我的一部分向你射去。
But they have other communication signals they use.	但是它们还使用其他的沟通讯号，
They have taste, not smell.	它们有味觉，但是没有嗅觉。
And they use these clicks to hunt and feed.	它们用这种滴答声来捕食。
Now this is some video of a typical dolphin fight.	这些是典型的海豚争执的视频，
For example, they babysit each other's calves.	比如，它们会互相照顾对方的幼仔。
But burst-pulsed sounds is a bit of a mystery.	不过突发脉冲音有点神秘。
He really wants that sargassum.	幼崽真的很想要那些海藻。
They've got better things to do in the wild.	它们在野外有更值得做的事情。
I'm going to drop the rope, see if they come over.	我把绳索丢下，看看它们会不会来。
Okay, so here's a second toy in the water.	好的，水里有另一件玩具。
So I'm reaching over. She's got the scarf on her right side.	我现在在慢慢接近。它拿到了围巾。
And I'm trying to lead her back to the keyboard.	我们尝试着引导它们回到键盘前。
But this is the moment where everything becomes possible.	但是这是一切都将变为可能的一刻。
You've got full attention.	你得到了它们的全力关注。
And this sometimes went on for hours.	有时候，这会持续好几个小时。
Now, how far can this kind of communication go?	这样的沟通方式还能做到什么呢？
I wish I had that when I was in college.	我希望我在大学时就有这个网。
So this is called "Tembererana."	所以这就是我的"弹拨若然娜"。
When he pushes his shoulders forward, he goes into a dive.	而当他向前伸展肩膀就往下滑。
So our first critical moment, it's open.	这是第一个关键时刻，它开了。
So it's possible to fly almost like a bird.	所以像鸟那样飞行还是可能的。
But I feel like a bird sometimes.	但我有时觉得自己像一只鸟。
YR: When I exit full of kerosene, I'm about 55 kilos.	如果满载柴油我大概是55公斤。
And I wanted to keep this freedom of movement.	我想要的是保持这种自由的飞翔动作
Just, I try to keep my mobility through new activities.	我只是通过新的活动保持灵活
My only instruments are [an] altimeter and time.	我唯一的仪器是测高仪和计时器。
But most probably I did something like that.	但是，确实有可能，我那样做了。
So the next thing I saw was just blue.	所以后来我看到的就是蓝色
People have died trying to do this kind of thing.	有人尝试做这样的事结果送命了。
YR: Yeah. I have no checklist for that.	是的。但我没有什么检查清单。
In a fighter, you have an ejection seat.	在飞机上，有一个弹射座椅
What happens if one of the engines stops?	如果其中的一个引擎坏了怎么办
But it was too stoney and full of cactus on top.	在上面岩石坚硬，而且长满仙人掌。
So it was much safer for me to land at the bottom.	所以降落在低谷安全的多。
Have you ever seen tandem birds?	你有见过纵排飞行的鸟呢？
It seems a little bit crazy, but it's not.	看起来有点疯狂实际上并不是的。
And I hope it will be for everybody.	我希望今后每个人都可以飞。
But they failed, almost completely, to make any.	但是他们得到的发展微乎其微
Authorities had been rejected before, many times.	历史上摈弃权威的例子比比皆是
Well, we've seen that that can't be true.	呵呵，我们知道这样说有些偏颇
It did help by promoting observation and experiment.	但经验主义成就了科学观察与实验
By the way, why don't we do that?	顺便问一句，我们干嘛不这样做呢？
We don't see those nuclear reactions in stars.	我们可看不见恒星中的核反应
We don't see the curvature of space-time, and other universes.	还有时空弯曲其他的平行宇宙
Well, the classic empiricist answer is induction.	经验主义的经典的答案是"归纳法"
"Ah!" say creationists.	于是那些神创论者就说:"啊哈！"
You have your interpretation. We have ours.	你有你的理解，我们有我们的
Scientific knowledge isn't derived from anything.	科学知识不是从什么直接推导而来
I think there is one thing you have to care about.	我觉得有一样东西我们得关注
So, in science, two false approaches blight progress.	在科学领域，有两种错误阻碍进步
Now, unfortunately, there are too many of you for me to do the statistics properly.	麻烦了，人太多了我都数不过来了
There are just way too few eye care professionals.	眼科护理专家实在是太少了
How do you do this? How do you solve this problem?	怎么办？怎么解决这个问题？
I'm short sighted. I look at the signs at the end, I can hardly see them.	我近视，几乎看不到最后排的标志
I've now made prescription eyewear to my prescription.	我通过自己诊断，做了副处方眼镜
In fact, this technology's been evolving.	事实上，这种技术一直在发展
There are about 30,000 in use now.	现在世界上有大约三万人在使用
And they're in fifteen countries. They're spread around the world.	他们分布在十五个国家，遍布全世界
How do you distribute? How do you work out how to fit the thing?	怎么运输？怎么教人如何使用？
How do you have people realizing that they have a vision problem?	怎么让人们意识到他们有视力问题？
How do you deal with the industry?	怎么处理工业生产的问题？
And he was followed by her little sister.	接下来女孩的小妹妹也加入他们
They can transform cities and communities.	它们可以改造并提升城市与社区
Now movies proved to be the ultimate medium for magic.	现在大荧幕已经是魔术的终极舞台。
All of my time was spent outside with the Inuit, playing.	我一天到晚都在户外与因纽特人玩耍
It's a spirit bear, or a Kermode bear.	而是一只百灵熊，或者叫克莫德熊
I thought, my career's over.	我心想，我的饭碗就此砸了
What in the heck was I thinking?	我当时是不是脑子进水了？
My clock is ticking. Okay, let's stop.	时间宝贵。好，就看到这里
And what I'm trying to do with my work is put faces to this.	而我的工作就是力求引起人们的关注
This was a bear I sat with for a while on the shores.	有一段时间，我在海岸边跟踪这只熊
But this glacier caved into the water and a seal got on it.	一座冰川崩塌后，一只海豹爬了上来
And they're not like the harbor seals that you have here.	它们跟这里海岸上的海豹不同
So really what the ice does is it acts like a garden.	那块冰的实际作用就像一座花园
I hope you appreciate yours.	希望你能好好珍稀你的办公室
And so I'm just so happy that the dive is over.	水下拍摄就快结束了，我非常高兴
So we had this little communication breakdown.	我们当时的沟通出现了一些短路
This very whale right here could be over 250 years old.	这只鲸鱼可能已经超过了250岁
This whale could have been born around the start of the Industrial Revolution.	它可能是在工业革命初期降生
Alright, my favorite part.	好了，这是我最喜爱的部分
They've got that wryly smile on their mouth.	它们总一副皮笑肉不笑的嘴脸
They look positively prehistoric and a bit scary.	看上去很沧桑，还有些吓人
Oh, and they also happen to eat happy feet.	对了，它们还很喜欢吃快乐的大脚
They're not these little harbor seals.	它们可不像这些身材娇小的海岸海豹
They are 12 ft. long, a thousand pounds.	它们长达12英尺，体重1000磅
But I think I probably used a different word starting with the letter F.	其实我当时多说了一个"妈"字
And now you've got to deliver.	现在就是你付出实践的时候
I put my snorkel in my mouth, and I rolled over the side of the Zodiac into the water.	戴上呼吸管从橡皮艇上翻入水中
Why else would she release these penguins at me?	要不它为什么要在我面前把企鹅放走
This just didn't happen a couple of times.	这样的情况不止一次地发生
Because she can't believe I can't eat this penguin.	它不敢相信我居然不吃这只企鹅
And she would get frustrated; she'd blow bubbles in my face.	它变得不耐烦了，对着我的脸吹泡泡
She's about to let me know she's too frustrated with me.	以此警告我，我把它惹毛了
Do you think it's possible to control someone's attention?	你们觉得人的注意力是可控制的吗？
Even more than that, what about predicting human behavior?	或者更进一步，人的行为可预知吗？
I was doing some shopping beforehand.	因为我刚才在场下转了转。
You just looked at your clock, right?	你们之前刚刚看了时间，不是吗？
With your eyes closed, what am I wearing?	请告诉我，我穿的什么衣服？
For me, I like to call him Frank.	我先暂且把它称作弗兰克。
What just happened? Do you have a wallet?	刚才发生了什么？你有钱包吗？
You have a lovely watch that doesn't come off very well.	你的手表不错，但有点不好取。
Come on up Joe. Let's play a game.	乔，请上台，让我们玩个游戏。
Come on up to the stage, Joe. Let's play a little game now.	请上台，乔。我们玩个游戏吧！
Hold out your hand for me. Watch it kind of closely.	把你的手拿出来，看好了。
Now this is a task for you to focus on.	现在需要你专注地做一件事。
I'll cheat if you give me a chance.	如果你稍有疏忽，我是会作弊的。
You're going to get it eventually. I have faith in you.	你最终会抓住它的，我相信你。
Squeeze firm. You're human, you're not slow.	抓紧了。作为人类，你动作敏捷。
Yet you had something inside your front pocket.	但是你前方口袋里还有东西，
Do you remember what it was?	你还记得里面装着什么吗？
Oh, that's where it was. Go ahead and put it away.	哦，它在这儿呢，请将它放回去。
I'm going to try to push it inside your hand.	我接下来会把它放在你手里。
Put your other hand on top for me, would you?	能把你的另一只手放在上面吗？
It looks a lot like the watch I was wearing, doesn't it?	这很像我现在带着的手表，对吗？
It falls out of the air, lands right back in the hand.	它从空中掉下来，落在了手上。
That's great. I need help with this one.	很好，我这儿需要一点帮助。
Attention is a powerful thing.	注意力是非常强大的东西。
So, I guess I'd like to pose that question to you.	所以，我想问大家一个问题，
I'm very lucky to work with two amazing collaborators.	我很有幸能和两名了不得的人合作。
I call them brothers from another mother.	他们当他们是我同父异母的兄弟。
I moved back to Kenya in 2011.	我2011年的时候回到了肯尼亚。
Mobile connectivity in Africa is pervasive.	在非洲，移动通信网络是很普及的。
With load balancing, this can be possible.	有了负载平衡，就用有可能了。
Imagine a weather station that can be attached to this.	想象一下它能连接到一个气象站。
It's got to be stretching. How am I going to make — ?"	压力好大。我要怎么把它做好呢？"
So I just hope I've got the level of difficulty right.	所以我只希望它的难度比较适中。
You don't believe me, do you? Okay.	你其实不相信我，不是吗？好吧。
People are supposed to be good at making stuff happen.	理论上说我们应该很擅长创造才对。
This is a quote, and I'll just pick words out of it.	这里有断摘要，我只挑些重点。
Cyberspace moves everything at the speed of light.	互联网把所有的事情都变成了光速。
So what happens is, we get this wonderful whooshing acceleration and change.	眼下，世界正如火箭班呼啸加速。
The density of the interaction of human beings is amazing.	交流和互动之频繁令人震惊。
And they use it as a metaphor. Have you come across this?	他们只是打个比方。你们遇到过没？
Now how do we cope and deal with that?	现在我们该怎么应对这一切呢？
And grasshoppers have a different kind of breathing system.	蚱蜢有一套完全不同的呼吸系统
Suppose that two American friends are traveling together in Italy.	想象两个美国人到意大利旅游
And in this case, the stereotype corresponds to reality.	在这个例子里﹐刻板印象反映了事实
You can understand why artists are so different from accountants.	了解为什么艺术家和会计师如此不同
This trait also tells us a lot about politics.	这个特性也让我们理解政治
Please raise your hand if you'd say you're libertarian.	请举手如果你是放任自由主义者
So anyway, let's go with the red pill.	总而言之﹐让我们选择红色药丸
He says, "The initial organization of the brain does not depend that much on experience.	他说"脑的初始组织不是来自经验
OK, so what's on the first draft of the moral mind?	那么道德的第一个版本是什么﹖
That you find across cultures and even across species?	跨文化和跨物种的人又谈论什么﹖
The second foundation is fairness/reciprocity.	第二个道德基础是公平-相等
We get to exercise some ancient, ancient drives.	我们借此发泄那些古老的欲望
But as people get more conservative, the values rise.	但当人越保守﹐这些价值便提升
Conservatives have more of a five-foundation, or five-channel morality.	保守派则是有五基础或是五频的道德
We find this in every country we look at.	我们在每个国家都看到一样的情形
Here's the data for 1,100 Canadians.	这是一千多个加拿大人的数据
Because liberals like to say, "Fetch, please."	因为自由派喜欢说"去接!"
In the first panel, we see the moment of creation.	在第一幅图里﹐我们看到创造世界时
On the first round, people give about half of the money that they can.	第一轮﹐人们给出一半的钱
I don't want to be a sucker. I'm not going to cooperate."	我才不是笨蛋。我不要合作。"
Because I think that the greatest wonder in the world is not the Grand Canyon.	因为我认为最大的奇景不是大峡谷
This is an absolute miracle, much harder to explain than the Grand Canyon.	这完全是奇迹﹐比大峡谷更难解释
Yes, you do need to be concerned about harm, you do need a psychology of justice.	是﹐你需要想到伤害你需要想到正义
Because liberals reject three of these foundations.	因为自由派拒绝其中三个基础
They say, "Let's question authority."	他们说"让我们质疑权威。"
And they say, "Keep your laws off my body."	他们说"不要给我这些法律。"
Liberals have very noble motives for doing this.	自由派这样做有着崇高的动机
They want change and justice, even at the risk of chaos.	他们要改变要正义就算可能造成混乱
Conservatives, on the other hand, speak for institutions and traditions.	保守派﹐在另一边为传统和制度发声
The great conservative insight is that order is really hard to achieve.	保守派的心理是秩序是非常难达成的
This was after the chaos of the French Revolution.	这是在法国大革命的混乱后
This is the great insight that all the Asian religions have attained.	这是所有亚洲宗教都有的特性
Yin and yang aren't enemies. Yin and yang don't hate each other.	阴阳不是敌人﹐阴阳不互相仇恨
This image actually is both of those gods sharing the same body.	这个图片是两个神使用同一个身体
You find the same thing in Buddhism.	你在佛教里也可以找到一样的例子
Can you be not for or against anything?	我能不支持和反对任何事情吗
So what should you do? Am I telling you to not strive?	你该怎么做﹖难道我要你放弃努力
No, absolutely not. I'm not saying that.	绝对不是。这不是我要说的
But there is also a passionate commitment to the truth.	同时也有一种接近真理的希望
So they are able to do it in that sense.	因此他们理所应当可以做那些
They don't know whether this person's hostile or not.	他们不知道这个人是否有敌意
It's essentially a big microwave transmitter.	它实际上是一个巨型的微波发射机，
But as I said, the military and the police are very different.	但是我却说，军队和警察是很不同的
The police minister had a whole heap of public statements made about it.	警察官有一堆关于这个的公文
And you can't actually find them very easily for individual Australian states.	实际上不能轻易地找到个别州的
Anyone know where that was? Wasn't Port Arthur, no.	谁知道那是哪里？不，也不是旅顺港
You have to be careful about who you're shooting at.	你要非常地小心在射击的是什么
The people you're going to be shooting at aren't going to be able to get out of the way.	那些你要射击的人不会从那里逃脱
And in fact, that's exactly what happened here.	实际上，这正是现在所发生的
Because they get tested in nice, safe environments.	因为他们在一个安全的环境下被测试
"She was running away. What else was I suppose to do?"	"她跑了，我还能做什么什么呢？"
And a colleague of mine sent me this one from London.	我的一个同事从伦敦给我寄来了这个
Apparently she took up a more threatening position in her bed.	明显地她在床上的姿势更具有威胁力
It's a scraper bike; it's called -- from Oakland.	它叫刮刀自行车，来自奥克兰。
But we hold them in San Francisco -- -- and in New York.	此外举办地还有在旧金山以及纽约。
People are remaking things into fashion.	人们会在时尚领域重新创造。
Now this one takes a little bit of explaining.	现在这个需要多解释一点。
You know what those are, right?	你们都知道这些是什么，对吧？
Billy-Bob, or Billy Bass, or something like that.	章鱼，或鲈鱼，或类似的东西。
And here he'll explain a little bit about what it does.	这里他会解释一下他所做的。
Makers are in control.	创造者希望对事物有所控制。
It was not something you'd even remark upon.	甚至不会有人专门去评论它。
Now I'm going to tell you one funny thing about this.	现在我会给你们讲一个有趣的事情。
And this kind of gets to this important idea today.	现在这些人有了这个很棒的创意。
And so it's a very interesting phenomenon that's going across the world.	这是一个在全世界都很有趣的现象。
But essentially these are people that are playing with technology.	但最根本的是有人在玩儿这些科技。
Now here's something -- a 3D printer.	我们来看，这是一个3D打印机。
And they do interesting things.	他们可以做些很有趣的事。
But there is a glamour of industry.	但是却存在着一个魅力产业。
And there's the mythic glamour of the garage entrepreneur.	这个是车库经理人的神话般的魅力
This is the Hewlett-Packard garage.	这是惠普当初起家的车库。
Glamour was a literal magic spell.	魅力是一种字面意义上的魔力咒符。
But still, glamour is an illusion.	但是，魅力仍是是一种幻觉。
And it involves a great deal of technique.	这都牵涉到很多的科技因素。
Glamour doesn't have to be people.	魅力并不一定要和人相关。
Architectural photography is extremely glamorous.	建筑摄影是十分具有魅力的。
It's a very glamorous portrait.	这是一幅非常迷人的肖像画。
You don't see her eyes; they're looking downward.	你看不见她的双眼，她在向下看。
Glamour invites us to live in a different world.	魅力使得我们能够进入另一个世界。
Arches with stained glass -- even more glamorous.	再加上彩色玻璃--就更加迷人了。
Staircases that curve away from you are glamorous.	那远远看去弯曲的楼梯十分吸引人。
This is underneath Jeff's desk.	在Jeff的桌子下面是这个样子。
You have to have mystery and you have to have grace.	你必须拥有神秘感和优雅感。
The white picket fence, the perfect house.	那白色的尖桩篱栅，完美的房屋。
The perfect getaway in your perfect car.	开上你的爱车逃离一切喧嚣。
The perfect office -- again, no cords, as far as I can tell.	完美的办公室。同样地，整齐有序，
I mean, there's no paper on the desk.	我的意思是，写字台上空空如也。
We want this golden world.	我们渴望这样完美的世界。
I could do a whole talk on "The Matrix" and glamour.	我可以就这个话题滔滔不绝
It was a very aesthetic ideology.	有一种非常美学的意识形态。
Me was always trying to become something, somebody.	我总在努力成为某人，某物，
For years, I actually only wore hats.	很多年来，我一直带帽子，
It was a way of keeping my head attached.	这是一种让我的头保持附着的办法，
I did this in front of many strangers.	在很多陌生人面前我也这样做。
I would drive it and demand things from it.	我可以驾驭我的身体并且命令它。
Some women became quiet and disappeared.	有些女人变得沉默、并消失了，
Well my stomach -- it was my stomach I hated.	啊，我的肚子，我讨厌我的肚子。
I heard stories that got inside my body.	我听到那些走进我身体里的故事。
Before cancer, the world was something other.	在患癌之前，这个世界是不一样的
And she died quietly in her favorite place.	母亲在她喜爱的地方安详的去世了。
And I said, "But what's the water part?"	我说,"那水的韵意呢？"
And she sang -- I mean her whole body sang.	并吟唱，她整个身心都在唱歌。
It was all the lies that got told before and after.	所言皆是谎言无论是之前和之后的。
It was my whole self melting into Michaela's lap.	我整个身心融化在米凯拉的圈子里。
It was the sorrow that's taken so long.	它是愁苦悲伤，存在多时，
It was underpaid and really loving nurses.	它是那些低报酬却很可爱的护士们，
It was magic healers and aromatic oils.	它是神奇的医疗者们和那些芳香油，
I think novelists put this best.	我觉得小说家们最能描述这个问题
It's above and behind your right ear.	它大概就在你右耳的后上方
Rebecca Saxe : This is the first pirate. His name is Ivan.	这是第一个海盗，名字叫做艾凡
And you know what pirates really like?	你知道海盗最喜欢什么吗？
And now, here comes the other pirate.	这时候，又来了另外一个海盗
And Joshua also really loves cheese sandwiches.	当然约书亚也一样很喜欢乳酪三明治
So which one do you think Ivan is going to take?	那你认为艾凡将会拿走哪一个呢？
Oh yeah, you were right. He took that one.	哦，你猜对了。他拿走了那个
Let's see what he does. Here comes Ivan.	艾凡来啦。我们看看他会怎么做。
And he says, "I want my cheese sandwich."	他说"我要我的乳酪三明治"
Uh-oh. Why did he take that one?	噢。他为什么要拿那个啊？
So that's why he's taking the other sandwich.	所以这是为什他拿走另外的三明治
And Grace's friend asks for some sugar in her coffee.	而且葛瑞丝的朋友想要加些糖
And she puts it in her friend's coffee.	接着她把这东西放到了朋友的咖啡
And her friend drinks the coffee, and is fine.	朋友喝了这玩意后呢，一切正常
Now she thinks the powder is sugar.	现在她认为这些粉末就是糖
First, I'm going to show you that this is a magnetic pulse.	第一个演示的是一个磁感脉冲
So, there's a couple of things to say about TMS.	所以有很多关于TMS的需要说明下
It's quite hard, actually, to get those very small changes.	即使是很小的一些改变也是很难的
But why does anyone have to feel anything?	但为什么人要感知所有的事情？
I just thought, and I thought long and hard.	我就只是在思考，深思了很久时间。
And I had two questions in my head.	在我脑海中产生了两个问题。
In other cultures, time is cyclical.	在其它文化中，时间是循环往复的。
It's always renewing and refreshing itself.	时间总是在不断复活，不断更新。
It's a finite resource; it's always draining away.	时间是有限资源，总是不断在衰竭。
You either use it, or lose it.	你要么使用时间，要么失去时间。
Time is scarce, so what do we do?	时间非常有限，所以我们怎么办？
Well -- well, we speed up, don't we?	于是，我们就加速运转，不是么？
We try and do more and more with less and less time.	我们试着用更少的时间做更多的事。
"Slow" is a dirty word in our culture.	缓慢在我们的文化中是个贬义词。
My default mode is no longer to be a rush-aholic.	我的默认模式不再是做一个大忙人。
And finally the building -- this is the model.	最后是整个建筑-这是个模型。
Every piece of the building works.	建筑的每一部分都有各自的用途。
I was very moved by what I saw today.	我对于我今天所见到的很受感动。
But one recognized the kind of uniqueness of the site.	但是可以看到这个选址的独特性。
He who seeks gratification shall be disappointed.	寻求满足，却只会变得失望。
Okay, I have no idea what we're going to play.	好吧我也不知道我们马上会演奏什么
So I think I'm going to start with what I just heard.	那就用我刚刚听到的音乐开场吧
There are so many decisions being made when you walk on the bandstand.	当你走上演奏台你就要作很多决定
The only mistake lies in that I'm not able to perceive what it is that someone else did.	除非我不能指出别人的失误
See, these all lie right inside of this general emotional palette that we were painting.	听起来也挺好和整体的调子协调
So I'm going to show you, we're going to play just for a second.	那么我来演示一下我们快速弹奏一下
We'll see what happens when we play with this palette.	让我们看看这段调子会是怎样的
The texture changed in the drums this time.	这次鼓手的演奏改变了旋律的感觉
So jazz, this bandstand is absolutely amazing.	所以在爵士乐里演奏台非常不可思议
We know that to be able to come on the bandstand and play music is a blessing.	我们能同台演奏是一种福气
But what that does is it actually limits the artistic possibilities.	但是这会限制乐手的艺术潜能
It has far more to do with what I can perceive than what it is that I can do.	我能感受到的比我能做的更加重要
It's much more organic. It's much more nuanced.	非常有组织的更多微妙的细节处理
It's not about bullying my vision or anything like that.	而不是把我的想法强加给别人
Here are some of the stories they wanted us to share with you.	这些是他们与我们分享的内容。
Do you see me on the other side of this fence?	你从篱笆的另一面的看到我了吗？
I have come from a place of intense darkness.	我来自一个充满黑暗的地方。
Why should we do this as Indians and Pakistanis?	为何我们要在行动时划清国界呢？
And if our fates are intertwined, then we believe that it is good karma, it is good fortune.	命运息息相关这是我们的荣幸。
They went through a lot to get here.	他们千辛万苦才来到这儿。
Would the Pakistanis please just stand up please?	请在座的巴基斯坦人站起来。
Capital, Malé, where I live.	首都是马累，我就住在那里。
And it has been my home these years.	正是如此，这些年她就成了我的家。
I spend as much of my time as possible investigating the marine life.	我全部精力都用来研究海洋生物。
And the way it works is, it comes from the southwest.	按理来说，它是从西南方向来。
It comes off the ocean here and is drawn up towards India.	它是从这里的洋面，被吸引到印度。
And then in the winter things cool down.	然后到冬天时，气候变冷，
Little larvae hatch out in fresh water.	小小的幼虫在淡水中孵化出来，
They control mosquito larvae, among other things.	除了别的，它们还控制蚊子的幼虫。
It's a rather mediocre looking dragonfly.	因为它的长相实在是很一般。
It's sort of dull-colored. And it's fairly common.	它的颜色有点暗淡，并且相当常见。
Because dragonflies need fresh water to breed.	因为蜻蜓需要淡水来繁殖，
So, Maldives, beautiful place.	好，马尔代夫，美丽的地方
It's built entirely of coral reefs.	它完全是由珊瑚礁建成的。
So, it stays under the soil.	所以，雨水留在土壤下面，
But dragonflies -- a bit tricky.	可是蜻蜓--就不好办了。
Wait for the go. I'll say go.	等我说开始，我会说开始的。
But wind is, invariably, every time, is from the west.	因此风总是每回都从西边来。
It's going towards India, not from India.	它是吹向印度，不是从印度来。
Are they coming from India against the wind?	它们是逆风从印度飞过来的吗？
So, next thing I did is I got on the phone.	所以，我接下来开始打电话。
Maldives is a long archipelago.	马尔代夫是一串很长的群岛，
When do you see the dragonflies appear?	问他们什么时候看到蜻蜓出现?
Far north of Maldives, a bit later.	在马尔代夫最北端，又迟一点。
And then the southernmost Maldives.	然后是马尔代夫的最南端。
I had a rigorous scientific transect.	我有一种很严谨的科研交通工具，
What happens, actually, is there is two air masses.	实际上，那里有两个气团。
Then the front moves into the northeast monsoon.	然后锋面移走，就进入东北季候风。
The larvae have to develop very quickly.	它的幼虫必须很快地发育，
And we're starting in June. So this is the monsoon rain.	是从六月开始。这些是季候风雨，
By September, October, it's drying out.	到九月，十月的时候，就干掉了。
They've got to go hunting for seasonal rain.	它们需要去寻找季节性的雨水。
And they are breeding in the rains of Africa.	然后它们在非洲的雨水中繁殖。
The dragonflies are here now. They're breeding there.	说蜻蜓来了，正在那里繁殖。
When those guys, they'll lay their eggs now.	所以这些家伙，它们正在产卵。
The rain occurs, these are summer rains.	雨下下来，这些都是夏天的雨。
A complete circuit of the Indian Ocean.	一个完整的跨印度洋的循环。
This is a circuit of about 16,000 kilometers.	这个循环大概有16,000公里。
So, Siberia, Manchuria.	所以，西伯利亚，黑龙江，
But it's a pretty miserable place to be in the winter.	但是在冬天是一个很难捱的地方。
They have a little refueling stop in northeastern India.	在印度的东北部稍微停留补充一下，
They come to the latitude of about Mumbai or Goa.	再到孟买或者果阿这个纬度休息，
And then they strike out across the ocean, down to Kenya.	然后猛地飞过印度洋，到了肯尼亚。
This time of year they cross back to Africa.	每年的这个时候他们就飞回非洲去。
So, they are using the same winds.	所以它们利用的是同样的风。
So it was evolving upwards.	所以说实在是在不断地发展。
And suddenly it was over for me. That's it.	而一夜之间都结束了。就这样。
That's how you make your money, you know?	你知道，我就是靠它养家糊口的！
Here are some tricks that I started to bring to that new terrain.	这些是我引入新领域的招式。
That's, like, the hardest thing I've ever done.	这恐怕是我做过中最难的了。
See how it's sliding on the backside?	有看到是怎样用板面去滑的吗？
It's just the way you throw your board over.	翻板滑只是把你的板子翻过来而已，
A little indulgent, I understand.	我知道，我有点讲太多了。
It is the funnest trick ever to do.	是我玩过中最好玩的一招！
I want to start fresh. I want to start fresh."	"我必须从头开始，重新出发。"
Freestyle oriented, manual down -- wheelie down.	由自由式开始，后轮平衡结尾。
Here. Back foot, back foot. Okay, up there?	就里，看后脚，看我的后脚
So, next — Oh, mind you. Those are the community.	哦！小心！这是一个滑板圈。
These are some of the best skaters in the world.	这些人是世界上最优秀的滑板手。
These are my friends. Oh my gosh, they're such good people.	他们是我的朋友，都是些高手！
Notice a couple of these shots from the Police Department.	来看看这些在警察局里拍的照片。
But it is quite similar. I mean, what is it to hack, right?	他们做的事和黑客很像，对不？
And they're not all bad.	而这些事并不都是些坏事，
Not authorized, but not illegal.	你也许没有获得授权，但也不违法。
We've all had some degree of fame.	我们都在各自的领域小有名气。
And Carl Norden is very firmly in the former camp.	卡尔･诺顿绝对属于第一阵营
He goes to the Federal Polytech in Zurich.	就读于苏黎士联邦理工学院
The bombsights that were available were incredibly crude.	当时使用的投弹瞄准器十分粗糙
But Carl Norden is really the one who cracks the code.	卡尔･诺顿就是解决这个难题的人
It allowed you to bomb only those things that you absolutely needed and wanted to bomb.	让炸弹只炸到想炸的目标上去
And it's carried in a box with a canvas shroud over it.	它被装在盒子里，上面盖着帆布
And the box is handcuffed to one of the guards.	一个手铐把一名士兵和盒子铐到一起
The Norden bombsight is the Holy Grail.	诺顿的投弹瞄准器被视为圣杯
Well in a real war, you can't do that; you'll get shot down.	但是战争可不是这样这么做就中枪了
It needs cloudless sky to be really accurate.	机器要求无云的天空来操作
They've invented websites that will allow people to be free.	他们发明了解放人们的网站
If you go into the military, you'll find lots of Carl Nordens as well.	军队里更是有大量卡尔･诺顿
But we need to be very clear about how little that means.	但我们很清初这话的份量到底有几何
It's the drone. What is the drone?	无人飞机。什么是无人飞机？
It is this weapon of devastating accuracy and precision.	它的准确性和精度都非常高
That is one of the most extraordinary records in the history of modern warfare.	这是战争史上最好的纪录了
And so for me that was the thing that was so enticing.	因此，这对于我来说相当诱人
I thought that might be a fun thing to talk about for a second.	这点比较有趣，值得花时间讨论一下
One is that if you went into space you'd be able to begin again.	如果你进入太空，你将可能重新开始
Tens of millions of them are thinking all the time; they have code attached to them.	上千万种物件总在运转它们内涵代码
Maybe the solution there involves talking to other people in real time.	工作过程中需要实时跟其他人讨论
So I think that's another big point.	因此我认为这就是另一个重要因素
You know, an example of something -- pregnancy.	大家知道，举个例子，怀孕
You can have a baby in Second Life.	在"第二人生"里，你可以抚养孩子
And so the existence of an economy is critical.	因此"经济"的存在性是很关键的
Handlebar mustache. Kind of a Village People sort of a character.	八字胡须，稍微有点像乡下人的角色
It's not easy to describe as a demographic.	这并不容易以人口统计的角度来描述
Moved around a bunch -- had that experience too.	到过很多个城市——也有这种经历
And then that's kind of a horrifying thought, of course.	那么当然，这是种很恐怖的想法
That's a frightening change, frightening disruption.	这是令人忧虑的变化和可怕的破坏
It is something that -- changes of nature.	享乐不是自然而然得到的。
It sort of uses itself as you experience it.	火的不同用处在于你不同的体验。
For you, that might be surprising.	听到这里，你们也许会觉得惊奇。
Look at the waves coming here to shore.	我们来看看涌向岸边的海浪。
When you are at the bottom of the wave, you hit the bottom.	当你被海浪打在水下时会触到水底。
So you go from elation to depression -- there's no depth.	从高兴变得沮丧，是因为心性不定。
Even joy -- that can be the spring of happiness.	即使高兴可以引发幸福感，
That very sentence already reveals the doom of destruction of happiness.	这种说法本身就说明了幸福的脆弱。
However, this is not enough. Those are just auxiliary, help conditions.	然而，外在条件只能起辅助作用。
So then, this just needs to have some experience.	从我们的切身体验中能找到答案。
And also, they are detrimental to others' happiness.	而且也会给别人带来不幸。
And we would like to be like that all the time.	其实这种行为可以成为一种习惯。
Is change possible in our emotions, in our traits, in our moods?	情感和心理特征是可以改变的吗？
That is the ground for mind training.	因此，人的心灵可以修炼。
You could go from love to hate.	人的心理可以从爱转变到恨。
But, of course, each emotion then would need a particular antidote.	每种情感都有对应的解药。
So then, it's a self-perpetuating process.	这就是自我重复记忆的过程。
So that's what those great meditators have been doing.	那些沉思者就是这样做的。
So there's a basic line for people. And also, it can be changed.	这里有条基本线。它是可以改变的。
Like the startle experiments, for example.	例如在测试惊吓反应的试验中，
This is not a supplementary vitamin for the soul.	也不是给灵魂提供营养的维生素，
We do all kinds of things to remain beautiful.	我们尽其所能想让自己外表漂亮。
And I'm going to tell you a little bit about later on.	我现在就要向你们介绍这个项目。
And you can ferret away at those little sub-questions.	然后你就能一个个地解决。
How long have we been divergent from each other?	我们已经开始分支了多长时间？
And it is quite clear that apes originated on the African continent.	很明显猿类是从非洲大陆来的。
What we're asking about though is human ancestry.	我们这里讲的是原始的人类祖先。
Well, historically, it has been studied using the science of paleoanthropology.	古生人类学已经研究了很多年了，
You think you've got a tough job?	你还抱怨你的工作难做么？
You start in the present, with relationships you're certain about.	你从确信对的亲属关系开始，
You and your siblings, you have a parent in common.	你和你的兄弟姐妹，同样的父母，
I suspect that not everybody in the audience is a geneticist.	我猜不是每个听众都是遗传学家。
Now, how recently do we share this ancestry?	现在的问题是，这发生在多久以前？
No, the DNA tells a story that's very clear.	不是的。DNA把历史弄得很清楚，
Why was it that we seem to have come out of Africa so recently?	为什么我们这么晚才从非洲出来？
What was going on to the world's weather around 60,000 years ago?	六万年前，世界的气候是什么样的？
Rather, Africa was drying out at that time.	但是，非洲变得非常干燥。
So the whole world was drying out.	所以当时整个世界都变得干燥了。
The Sahara was much bigger then than it is now.	当时的撒哈拉沙漠比现在的大很多，
What do you want to do next?"	你下一步的计划是什么？"
And I said, "Well, you know, what I've sketched out here is just that.	我说，你知道，我画的这个图只是
And that was the genesis of the Genographic Project.	这才是刚刚是基因地理学的开始。
So my ancestors come from all over northern Europe.	比如我的祖先是从欧洲各地来的，
I live in the Eastern Seaboard of North America when I'm not traveling.	我本人定居在北美东海岸，
The majority going to something we call the Legacy Fund.	大部分会用来当作保留费用，
We've just awarded the first Legacy Grants totaling around 500,000 dollars.	我们刚刚给了第一个基金会五十万。
Yes, it is a scrambled egg.	对，这是个被搅拌的鸡蛋。
And you'll now see the yolk and the white have separated.	并且你可以看到蛋黄和蛋白分开了。
What we see around us is staggering complexity.	我们周遭所见的是那么惊人的复杂。
And at each threshold, the going gets tougher.	在这些起始点，条件将更加苛刻。
And that's the story that we tell in big history.	我们讲的历史这件事就是这个故事。
You have to survey the whole history of the universe.	你必须纵观整个宇宙的历史。
And it's expanding at incredible speed.	并且它以一种难以置信的速度膨胀。
And all of that happens in the first second.	所有的一切发生在第一秒。
And now simple atoms appear of hydrogen and helium.	现在普通原子氢，氦出现了。
They're really a sort of cosmic mush.	它们确实是某种宇宙混沌。
I'm talking, of course, about living organisms.	当然，我说的是生命个体。
Living organisms are created by chemistry.	生命个体是有化学物质组成的。
We are huge packages of chemicals.	我们是大量化学物质的集合。
So, chemistry is dominated by the electromagnetic force.	化学是被电子磁场力所控制。
Well, it's here that life introduces an entirely new trick.	这就是生命呈现的一个全新的窍诀。
And what that means is that DNA is, in effect, learning.	也就是说实际上，DNA在进化。
And occasionally, there are disasters.	接着，偶然间，发生了灾难。
They accumulate information, they learn.	它们积累信息，它们进化。
Now what makes humans different is human language.	让人类特别的是人类的语言。
I call this ability collective learning.	我把这个叫做集体学习的能力。
And exploiting that energy, human populations multiplied.	同时利用这个能量，人口增长。
And that brain is learning at warp speed.	这个大脑以一种超速学习着。
We've stumbled on another energy bonanza in fossil fuels.	我们偶然发现另外一个能量源石油。
So, here we are, back at the convention center.	那么，这儿我们现在回到演讲厅。
It's kind of a recent topic, at least in the U.S.	这个话题很新至少在美国很新
And then they foreclose.	之后，他们的财产被银行收走了。
Then market stocks seize and we're like, "Wow.	之后股市开始缩水而我们就开始感叹
What if you lose your iPhone?	如果你的iPhone丢了怎么办？
What if you do this?	如果发生了其他事情怎么办？
And we're going to look at their saving behavior.	我们将会看一下他们的储蓄行为
Some of them elect not to save.	他们中的一部分选择不储蓄
And they get overwhelmed and the just don't join.	他们应接不暇，所以也就不了了之了
Take out those who say they save too little.	除去那些说自己没有存钱的人。
What are we going to do about it?	那么我们该如何对待这件事情呢
I'm going to divert and talk about bananas and chocolate.	我想先谈一下香蕉和巧克力
Self-control is not a problem in the future.	自控能力不是未来的一个问题
Or as some economists call it, present bias.	一些经济学家将其称为，及时性偏见
It takes effort. You need to think.	这需要很大努力你需要再三考虑
You will decide whether you want to donate your organs or not.	你需要决定你是不是想要捐赠器官
So we've chatted about a couple of behavioral challenges.	我们已经谈及了几个行为障碍
Those 20 dollars might have been a quick lunch.	这20美元很可能代表着一顿午餐
Well, maybe it shouldn't be just January.	也许我们不应该仅仅从一月份开始
It's not just numbers on a piece of paper.	这不仅仅是一张纸上的数字
It's been part of the Pension Protection Act.	这是养老金保护法案的一部分
One is behavioral finance is extremely powerful.	第一点是行为金融学是非常强大的
Message two is there's still a lot to do.	第二点就是我们要做的还有很多
There's a lot of opportunities to make it powerful again and again and again.	还有很多机会将它变得越来越强大
It's completely fucked up and can only be explained in song.	这完全是一团糟只能用歌曲来解释
So we are past our 1,000th show.	所以现在我们的表演超过一千场了
How early can a rock performance begin?	摇滚表演的时间能早到什么程度呢
This song is called "Asbury Park."	这首歌叫"阿斯伯里帕克"
Do you have a laminated badge, Eleanor?	埃莉诺，你有一枚层压的徽章是么
Eleanor, I'm sorry, do you have a laminated badge?	埃莉诺，对不起你有层压的徽章么
Well, I think we're going to stop that part of the show.	好吧，我想我们应该停下这一段表演
I thought I had better change.	当时我想，我可能确实需要些改变。
I don't even know if it's honest.	我甚至不知道它是不是真的存在，
You remember how India was. There was no pollution.	你知道那时候的印度，没有污染。
How did I do it? Tell a story.	可我是怎么做到的？讲故事。
I don't know; I'm not sure, but that's what I've done all the time.	我不知道。但我一直就是这么做的。
But that puts some kind of burden on me.	但这个成为了我的某种负担。
And I look for stories on each level.	我在这所有层面上寻找故事。
The writer said "It's about history, plot."	而编剧说它是关于历史、情节。
So can we have that second?	那么，我们可能拥有后者么？
Are you with child?	你是不是已经怀上了爵士的孩子？
My bitches wear my collars.	你这个荡妇竟还敢待在我身边。
Do you hear me? Do you hear me?	你在听吗？你在听我说话吗？
Tell me. Say it. Is the child his? Is it his?	告诉我！说！孩子是他的吗？
This is not the queen I love and serve.	这并不是我热爱并且侍奉的女王。
These offenses are punishable by law. Arrest him.	这些行为是违法的！抓住他！
What am I doing with the architecture?	我是怎样处理那些建筑的？
So it's telling you, to me, stone is part of her destiny.	所以，石头就是她的命运，
She's in the absolute well of her own sense of being mortal.	在她自我构筑的绝对的深井里。
So how does that become a story?	这一切是如何成为一个故事的？
And if there's any revolution, they cut off the water.	如果有革命，他们就索性切断水源。
When you get up, the night and day is a contradiction.	当你起床时，看到日与夜的矛盾。
In a storyteller's mind, it's a contradiction of moralities.	在故事中，那时死亡与不朽的矛盾。
Gave it more love and care than my own child.	对它的关爱甚至超过了对自己的孩子
"You see that stone wall out there?	"你看见那边的石头墙了吗？
"You see that pier on the lake out there?	"你看见那边湖上的码头了吗？
I built that pier with my bare hands.	我就凭这双手造了那个码头
That's not by chance, that's by design.	这并不是偶然的而是设计好的
And I always thought it was such a fantastic device.	我一向认为这是一个极其巧妙的技巧
It's the purest form of cinematic storytelling.	是电影中最单纯的讲故事的方式
They just don't want to know that they're doing that.	只不过他们不想知道自己亲自动手了
We're born problem solvers.	我们生来就是个问题解决者
And we would call this the unifying theory of two plus two.	我们称之为"2+2的统一定理"
Don't give them four, give them two plus two.	不要给他们一个4而给他们2+2
Editors and screenwriters have known this all along.	编辑和剧作家都默契的知道
And it's something that always drove all his choices.	这也是驱使他做出各种决定的原因
Wall-E's was to find the beauty.	Wall-E想要找到它心目中的美
Sometimes you can make some horrible choices with them.	有时候你可能会犯下严重的错误
All you can do is learn to recognize it and own it.	我们需要做的就是发现它并拥有它
And you're still learning who you are.	而你自己也在仍在不断地了解你自己
And that's why change is fundamental in story.	这也是为什么变化是故事的基本
So I researched everything I possibly could.	所以我翻遍了所有我能找到的资料
It's an incredibly insightful definition.	这是一个非常有深度的解释
I don't think what you did was right.	我不认为你所做的是正确的
Who said your job was to think, Spring Wiener?	谁说你可以考虑的？弹簧香肠？
After that, all bets are off.	在这之后，没什么好纠结的
And I saw that thing seven times in one month.	我把那部片子在一个月里看了七次
It can't be artificially evoked.	这是无法人为的制造出来的
Do unto others what's been done to you.	别人怎么对你你就怎么对他们
I grew up on a small farm in Missouri.	我在密苏里州的一个小农场长大。
Now this is God's work, but it's not my work.	这是上帝的工作，不是我的工作。
It's not the work I set out to do.	这不是我当初想做的工作。
I met a guy -- the guy on the left.	我遇见了一个人，左边那个。
We were attacking the wrong driver.	我们没找准这问题的切入点。
We know the limits of the resources we have.	我们清楚所拥有的资源的极限。
There's a basic equation that we can't get away from.	有一个我们不容回避的基本的公式。
In 2000, we had six billion people on the planet.	2000年，地球上有60亿人。
But that's what the math says.	但是算术上来讲就是这样的。
All of those things are part of that equation.	所有这些都是等式的一部分。
How is a consumer going to walk through this minefield?	一个消费者要如何来跨过这个雷区？
Sustainability has got to be a pre-competitive issue.	可持续必须是一个竞争前的问题。
It's got to be something we all care about.	这一定是我们所有人都关心的事情。
Everybody's got to work together -- China and the U.S.	每个人都要同心协力－中国与美国。
But we can't do everything.	但是我们也不是什么都能做。
We have to work in these places.	我们一定要在这些地方开展工作。
We looked at the threats to these places.	我们观察了对这些地方的威胁。
Are we going to work with 1.5 billion producers?	我们要和15亿的生产者合作吗？
We need change that's going to accelerate.	我们需要加速可持续性转变。
We need to begin to work with industries.	我们需要与整个行业合作。
Three of the original eight entities were suing each other.	在这之前8家中的三家在互相起诉。
If they don't have commodities, they don't have a business.	如果他们没有商品，就没生意做了。
So it's the demand that brings them to the table.	所以是需求将他们聚拢到会议桌边。
Why is Cargill important?	为什么嘉吉公司这么重要？
That's not insignificant.	那可不是一个微不足道的比例。
It's a pre-competitive issue.	这是一个"竞争前"议题。
Mars is also on a similar journey.	玛氏也在经历一个类似的状况。
It's more with less and less again.	又是一个生产更多消耗更少的例子。
That is an externality by definition.	那就是一个标准的外部经济效益。
This is the subsidy from nature.	这是从大自然那拿的津贴。
These companies have begun to think differently.	这些公司已经开始改变思路了。
I still remember this decisive moment.	我到现在都还记得那个决定性的时刻
My idea: We awaken this network.	我的想法是:激活这些网络
He listened to me carefully, and responded with a grin.	他仔细的听了我的想法然后咧嘴一笑
How could we re-engage the engine?	我们怎么把引擎重新打着？
The animal had virtually no control over the legs.	小白鼠实际上并不能控制自己的腿
But the remaining question was, how?	接下来的问题是,"怎么做到的?"
This is truly a trans-disciplinary team.	这是一个真正的跨学科团队
I am only the maestro who orchestrated this beautiful symphony.	我只是这首美妙协奏乐章的指挥而已
The truth is that we don't know enough yet.	而事实上，现在我们还都不那么清楚
The special relationship between the United States and the U.K.	美国和英国之间的特殊关系
And she stayed at home to take care of me and my older brother.	她待在家里照顾我和我哥哥。
He was grateful for what he had.	他对于自己拥有的一切心存感激。
And I talked about this throughout the entire campaign.	我在竞选的整个过程中也谈到这些。
You are the women who will build the world as it should be.	你们是要建立理想世界的女性。
You're going to write the next chapter in history.	你们将写出历史的下一个篇章。
You now have control over your own destiny.	你们的命运现在掌握在自己手上。
But you have everything you need.	可是你们拥有你们所需要的一切。
My husband works in this big office.	我丈夫在一个大办公室里工作。
Her celebrated operatic roles are numerous and varied.	她担当过很多不同的歌剧角色
And the breath, the breath is the captain of that vessel.	而呼吸呼吸是这这艘航船的船长
The emotions can flow from me to you and back.	感情可以流动从我到你轮回
So within this structure one is free.	所以在这样的形式中你可以自由发挥
So I would like to share this piece with you.	现在我想和大家分享这首曲子
Now, it may seem like there is less hope today than there was before.	现在，希望似乎比从前要少。
It's not better public transportation.	看来公交交通并没有更发达
So example number one: the Internet itself.	那么，举例一，互联网本身。
The limitation was that they didn't have any money.	限制在于，他们没有一丁点钱，
So the Internet needs addressing and directions.	所以互联网需要地址和方向。
It turns out there is no one overall map of the Internet.	互联网变成了没有整体的地图。
Well, for a big clue, we turn to NANOG.	一个重要的线索来自NANOG，
So it's kind of like if your house catches on fire.	所以这有点像你家房子着火了，
Jimbo's idea was for Nupedia.	金博的点子其实是Nupedia
And you just bring your problems to the page.	于是你把你的问题放到这页上来，
And that's what keeps Wikipedia afloat.	这就是使维基百科传播下去的东西。
And Wikipedia has embraced this.	而维基百科就拥有这种精神
They just didn't think it was the right thing to do.	维基百科人就认为这是不对的
Now, this isn't just limited to Wikipedia.	现在，这不仅限于维基百科
We see it on blogs all over the place.	我们随处都可以在博客上看到
Wow. Blogs are going to change your business.	哇，博客正在改变着你们的商业模式
They start off on all sorts of goofy projects.	他们创建各种各样的愚蠢的项目
So this is a blog devoted to unfortunate portraiture.	这是一个全是不幸的肖像照片的博客
They'll fund anything these days.	笑看来如今任何事都可能被资助
I'm not so sure hitchhiking is dead.	我不清楚搭便车是否已经不流行了
Now why are people using it?	现在为什么人们要用这个词呢
It's not a noun. It's a verb.	它不是一个名词，而是一个动词
But in the 1970s, some countries caught up.	到了70年代，有些国家赶上来了，
Today, every young Korean finishes high school.	而今天，韩国普及了高中教育。
This chart shows you the performance of countries.	这个图展示了这些国家的表现。
You know, it's very pleasant to walk into a small class.	走进小课堂时很令人愉快。
The first thing you can see is that the bubbles were a lot smaller, no?	这些泡泡当时还很小，不是吗？
And then policymakers began to respond to this.	接着决策者开始有了回应。
The federal government dramatically raised its investment in education.	联邦政府大幅度提高教育投入。
So what you can actually see, there's been a lot of change.	所以确实能看到，很多的改变。
You know, Poland hasn't changed its culture.	波兰并没有改变它的文化。
How do the media talk about schools and teachers?	媒体应该如何报道学校和老师呢？
But placing a high value on education is just part of the picture.	高度重视教育只是其中的一方面。
But usually that is linked to very strong social disparities.	但通常是有很强的社会不公有关系。
Every student knows what's required to be successful.	学生们都知道成功需要什么。
The past was about delivered wisdom in education.	过去教育是传递知识和智慧的桥梁。
They enable their teachers to make innovations in pedagogy.	他们鼓励老师们在教学中勇于创新。
The goal of the past was standardization and compliance.	以往的目标是标准化和服从。
They invest resources where they can make the most difference.	他们给能产生最大不同的资源投资。
You just can't rely on the people out there to help you with this.	你不能靠在外面的人来帮助。
It has taken away excuses from those who are complacent.	它排除了那些自满者的借口。
And they demanded authorities from -- to come down from their high horses.	他们要求至高的权威走下神坛。
Aid actually did the opposite.	援助所起的作用恰恰相反。
Because they were getting it from abroad.	因为他们能从海外得到资金援助。
Because the aid and oil or mineral money acts the same way.	因为援助、石油或矿产的作用相同。
Of course, how would you empower citizens?	如何才能赋予公民更多的主动权？
There was a war going on in my country.	那时，我的祖国正经历一场战争，
They show an interesting thing.	它说明了一个有趣的现象。
So the United States or the UK would be here, outside.	比如美国、英国在这里，图表以外。
So obviously this was a gadget to have.	很明显，电话的作用不可忽视。
And if we are neighbors, I could just walk over to his house.	如果我们是邻居，我可以走到他家。
But in any event, it's connectivity that leads to dependability.	无论如何，相互连接才能相互依靠，
They get a car, and they go to work.	他们买了汽车，开车上班，
So it's -- a bank tends to serve a whole community.	所以，一家银行为许多客户服务。
And it's a business for her.	对这人来说，这是一门生意。
And angel investors in America put in money into that.	这家公司得到了美国天使投资。
I flew around the world.	之后我开始奔走于世界各地。
And of course, it's very beneficial in a lot of ways.	当然，这一模式还有很多好处。
And again, here are some of the lessons.	这里是我们获得的一些经验。
"Governments need to subsidize private companies."	"政府需要资助私营公司"。
Their involvement reduces the cost.	事实上，他们可以降低成本。
"The poor are uneducated and cannot do much."	"穷人教育程度低，无法成大事"。
And each of these generators is selling electricity to 20 houses each.	每个发电机向20户人家输送电力。
And that changed my mindset forever.	我的思维模式从那时起开始改变。
You see, I was a study nerd.	如你所见，我是一个书呆子。
And I studied very much in Sweden.	而且我在瑞典学习时很用功。
I used to be in the upper quarter of all courses I attended.	我曾在所有课程中都名列前茅。
But in St. John's, I was in the lower quarter.	但在圣约翰时，我却名落孙山了。
They read the textbook twice, or three times or four times.	他们会三番四次地阅读他们的课本。
But I will start with a historical background.	首先，我会介绍一下历史背景。
And they were the first to "Twitter" transatlantically.	他们，是第一对跨大西洋的推客。
It meant paying with opium for Chinese goods.	这意味着用鸦片换取中国商品。
And let's see how much difference that can make.	让我们来看看这将带来多大的差异。
On this axis, as I used to have income per person in comparable dollar.	一般横轴都代表人均收入。
And I also bring an innovation here.	今天，我又一次带来了一件发明。
Can you see how it starts to move there?	你们可以看见他的确是在动吗？
But really, really natural sovereignty was good for Japan.	国家主权完整使日本受益匪浅。
But careful now -- we are approaching the First World War.	但要小心，一战的脚步已经近了。
And then after the First World War, they continue up.	一战后，他们继续向上攀升。
But they did recover quite fast afterwards.	但战后他们恢复的相对迅速。
It was central planning by Mao Tse Tung.	这是由毛泽东统一计划的。
But they went up here, and India was trying to follow.	中国又日趋上升，印度则是吊车尾。
Because catching mice is what the two cats wanted to do.	因为这正是这两只大猫想做的。
This is the big question today.	这是现今世界的一个大问题。
And it's healthier than the United States.	而且市民的平均寿命比美国还长。
The geographical, macro-geographical difference is not so big.	从地理的角度上来看，差距不大。
Now here we have the whole world. You have the legend down there.	现在来看看全球。图例则在这里。
But most of the world in the middle are pushing forwards very fast.	但大多中间阶层国家都进步的很快。
And then time here, from 1858 I start the world.	回溯到1858年世界由此开始。
And we shall see what will happen with these countries.	让我们来观察下世界将会如何改变。
And after Second World War, United States is richer than U.K.	二战后，英国被美国赶超。
Growth is starting, economic reform.	经济经过改革后开始增长。
That's the dot com bubble. This is the Lehman Brothers doorstep there.	看，雷曼兄弟的门槛在这。
So they doesn't seem to go this way, these countries.	这些国家走的并不是阳光大道。
And there is no doubt that fast catch up can take place.	毫无疑问，他们追的很快且赶上了。
But the real projections for those ones, I would like to give it like this.	不过我做出的预测则是这样的。
We know it's there by its gravitational effects.	我的得知它们存在通过引力效应。
And so let me lead you through how we can do this.	那么让我帮助你们了解如何这样做。
And suppose there's a galaxy out here in the universe.	假设在宇宙中有一个星系。
How do we see that galaxy?	我们如何能看到那个星系？
Where will this observer see the galaxy?	这个观察器会在哪里看到星系呢？
We extrapolate backwards and say the galaxy is up here.	我们倒推然后确定星系在这里。
And you can put it on top of any image.	你可以把它放到任何图像上。
And it's an enormous amount of mass.	质量的总额是十分庞大的。
OK. So now, let's turn to dark energy.	好。现在我们转向暗能量。
And that is the fact that space itself is expanding.	那就是宇宙正在扩张的事实。
So they're moving further apart.	所以他们正运动地越来越远。
So the expansion slows down with time.	所以扩张的速率随着时间减慢。
This was a completely surprising result.	这是完全令人惊讶的结果。
No one was predicting ahead of time this is what's going to be found.	没有人事先预言了什么将会被发现。
It was the opposite of what was expected.	它和我们的期望是相反的。
So we need something to be able to explain that.	所以我们需要一些东西去解释它。
So a crystal that will ring if that happens.	一种晶体振子在它发生时会振动。
And I'm Robbie, and I'm 14, and I play the fiddle.	我是罗比，今年14岁，小提琴手
So you can probably piece the rest together.	接下来的故事各位就自行想象吧
It might have been that it weighs about a million pounds.	搞得就像那琴有一百万磅重一样
They started with two and they ended with two.	开始用两个最后还是那两个
So you can imagine the scale of this problem.	你想想这个问题有多么严重
These kids in Pakistan don't go to school.	巴基斯坦的这些小孩根本不上学
They are lucky. They already have a job.	他们比较"幸运"。他们找到了工作
In China, recycling is a major issue.	在中国，注射器的回收是个大问题
And these are used with traces of blood visible.	这些水枪里面有的时候会有血迹
So, it's a normal-looking syringe.	恩，很普通的一个注射器。
It's very, very simple. Thank you.	非常非常简单。谢谢大家。
And I have an information charity which has done huge scale amount of work in India.	我在印度做了很多免费的宣传
I'm not going to tell you about exports and prices.	我不会谈论什么出口和价格。
We see almost no change in sexual behavior.	但在性行为上却几乎没发生变化。
It's also important to think about what the benefit is.	能带来多少利益也是必须要考虑的。
But your health decisions are the same.	而你的健康选择也是如此。
But, you know, it has a benefit in terms of future longevity.	就未来长寿而言，它确实有好处。
It's not the only place we had any interventions.	这不是我们有介入的唯一地区
That suggests it's pretty similar levels of development.	这说明他们有着相似的发展水平
And these are not trivial differences in mortality rates.	这在死亡率中绝不是微小的差距
So I am going to talk about exports and prices.	我要讲一些跟出口和价格有关的东西
And HIV is actually particularly closely linked to transit.	艾滋病与过境的联系很紧密
And that was the genesis of the entire epidemic in the US.	这是艾滋病在美国传播的起源
So this has important implications both for forecasting and for policy.	这对于预测和政策都有重要的影响
Coffee is Uganda's major export.	咖啡是乌干达的主要出口产品
We're spending so much money to try to replicate this campaign.	我们花了大量的钱试图复制这项运动
Trying to change them by engaging in male circumcision.	通过包皮环切术来改变他们
But more than anything, you know, I'm an academic.	但是你要知道我是一个学者
We're not the first ones to process cellulose.	我们并非第一个会处理纤维的物种
We're not the first ones to build houses for our young.	也不是为后代建造房屋的第一物种
So these people, biomimics, are nature's apprentices.	这些仿生学家们，是大自然的学徒
He happened to be a birder.	韦斯特正巧也是个鸟类爱好者
He went to the equivalent of an Audubon Society meeting.	他去了奥杜邦学会相关会议
And he thought, "What if we do this?"	接着他想到"要不我们也这么办？"
Quieted the train.	通过这种方法，列车的噪声大大降低
It actually basks. It's a slow-moving shark.	事实上它很惬意，一向游得很慢
It's got bumps on the back of its wing covers.	在覆盖它身体的翅膀后侧有些突起
They have water-loving tips, and waxy sides.	它们有亲水的前端和蜡质的旁侧
And it goes down the sides and goes into the critter's mouth.	然后从旁侧流下直至其口中
Organisms don't think of CO2 as a poison.	生物体可不把二氧化碳当有害气体
It can be put down on any substrate whatsoever.	也可以着根于任何生化基质
It's extremely inexpensive and rechargeable every five years.	其价格低廉而且每五年可再充电
We take water and push it against a membrane.	我们人类却用水去挤压细胞膜
And it's in every cell.	这种方法渗透到每一个细胞
It's kind of a forward osmosis.	这过程多少有点像正向渗透
They export water molecules through, and leave solutes on the other side.	它们输出水分子把溶解质留在另一边
Trees and bones are constantly reforming themselves along lines of stress.	树木和骨骼通常沿着压力线自我重组
It's breathable. It creates color through structure.	又透气，并且结构安排产生颜色
Here's a wind turbine manufacturer that went to a whale.	有一家涡轮制造商取法于鲸鱼
These wind turbines can rotate in incredibly slow windspeeds, as a result.	于是极低的风速即可转动风扇
Finally, on an ecosystem scale.	最后，建立在生态系统规模上
Which is to create conditions conducive to life.	也就是创造有利于生存的环境
And he's gathering all biological information on one website.	他正在收集各种生物资讯于一个网站
To watch them move is a dance I'm never going to get tired of.	看着它们摆动是我从未厌倦的舞蹈
It fills me with wonder, and it opens my heart.	让我感叹不已，让我敞开心扉
Their relationship is a love story that feeds the Earth.	它们的互动是滋养地球的爱情故事
Well, their answer was, "It's all about risk and reward."	他们的回答是"风险和回报"
Everything in the universe wears out."	宇宙中所有的东西都将消亡"
So here is some nectar from my film.	这里是我的影片中的一些花蜜
They just get the school which parents choose for them.	只是去上父母替他们选好的学校。
I grew up like this, and so did my other three sisters.	我自由成长，我的三个姐妹也是。
If they're bad, they're your creation. Learn from it.	要是你做了坏事，就从中学习。
I thought I must tell you this.	我觉得我必须给你们讲这个故事，
And I redefined policing concepts in India.	这样我修改了印度的警察理念。
This is about tough policing, equal policing.	我的政策是严格执法，公平执法。
Now I was known as "here's a woman that's not going to listen."	如今我被认为是个不听管教的女性。
I now went to a prison assignment as a police officer.	目前我被派到一个监狱作警察，
Normally police officers don't want to do prison.	通常警察是不愿直接在监狱工作的。
This was a prison assignment which was one big den of criminals.	这个监狱是个重犯云集的窝点，
And then how did I deal with them?	现在我又该怎么对付他们呢？
This is a visual of education inside the prison.	这是一张在监狱内施教的照片。
I started this with community support.	这是靠着公众支持搞起来的，
I think that's the bigger change.	我认为这是个更大的改变。
That's the second landmark.	这是第二个我要分享的改革。
One, the numbers you'll never get to see.	一来是你看不到具体数字，
Secondly, this concept.	二来这些概念也不会被提起。
One thousand prisoners who sat in meditation.	一千个囚犯全在静坐冥想。
Let me show you the next slide.	让我再给你们看一张幻灯片。
This worked.	这个方法在警察身上同样奏效。
Secondly is about the anti-corruption movement in India.	其次是在印度反腐败的运动。
Okay, outstanding. So I invented that.	哇，不少呢。我就是发明这个的人。
So this is an example from the Yahoo registration page.	这个例子来自雅虎注册网页
And then about a year and a half ago, Google actually acquired this company.	一年半前谷歌收购了这个公司
So let me tell you what this project started.	现在我来说说这个项目的初始
When I first heard this, I was quite proud of myself.	我头次听到的时候还挺自豪
I thought, look at the impact that my research has had.	我想我们的研究影响力不小啊
Your brain is doing something that computers cannot yet do.	这是电脑目前尚无法做到的
So there's a lot of projects out there trying to digitize books.	目前有很多书籍电子化的项目
Google has one. The Internet Archive has one.	谷歌有一个。"互联网档案"有一个
Amazon, now with the Kindle, is trying to digitize books.	现亚马逊的Kindle也有一个
It gives you an image for every page of the book.	你就有了这本书每一页的照片
This is an image with text for every page of the book.	这是一本书每一页文字内容的照片
So this is the favorite thing that I like about this whole project.	这是我最喜欢的这个项目的部分
And it is numbers like these that motivate my research agenda.	正是这样的数字激励我的研究进程
Since it hasn't been launched, shhhhh!	因为我们还没有投入使用嘘！
By the way, you did hear me correctly; his last name is Hacker.	另外你确实没听错他姓骇客
So right now the Web is partitioned into multiple languages.	现在的网页内容主要分为几大语言
If you don't know any English, you can't access it.	如果你不会英语就无法使用
Why can't we use it to translate the whole Web?	为什么不用它来翻译所有网页呢？
So let me show you an example of something that was translated with a machine.	比如这个例子是由机器翻译的
This person starts apologizing for the fact that it's translated with a computer.	他首先道歉这是机器翻译的内容
Remember, it's a question about JavaScript.	记住这个问题是关于Java语言的
It's about 20 percent of the size of English.	大概是英语内容的百分之二十
How are we going to motivate people to actually translate the Web for free?	怎么才能让人们甘愿免费翻译网页？
So how are we going to motivate them to do it for free?	那么怎么才能让他们无偿劳动呢？
So it turns out that today, there are over 1.2 billion people learning a foreign language.	当今有超过12亿人口在学习外语
And it's not just because they're being forced to do so in school.	而且这不是学校里不得不做的功课
But at all times, you're learning by doing.	这整个过程你都是边学边用
First of all, people are really, really learning a language.	首先人们可以通过它学外语
We're mostly done building it, and now we're testing it.	我们建完了网站，它现正在测试中
So people really do learn a language.	这样人们就实实在在学习外语
This is a sentence that was translated from German into English.	这是一个从德语翻译成英语的例子
Remember, this is 50 million dollars-worth of value.	要记住这可是价值五千万美元的工程
So it's extremely unfair towards the poor.	所以这个模式对穷人极度不公平
So this is how we could monetize this.	这样你的学习过程就货币化了
Some people call this peer-to-peer.	有些人把这称之为群体共享。
And not just easy things that anyone can do.	而且这些事情并不是轻而易举。
And I can tell you two great stories.	我可以告诉你两个动人的故事。
All problems come back to transportation for me.	所有问题都回到我的运输上面来。
Maybe he's worried that he's going bald.	可能他正在担心自己快要秃了。
Any of those yes responses are what we called mind-wandering.	这些事就是我们所谓的走神了。
Well, how often do people's minds wander?	恩，人们走神的频率有多高呢？
It pervades basically everything that we do.	走神遍布在所有的人类活动中。
Ghana felt safe to me as a child.	加纳对儿时的我是安全的家
We the children had gathered at a friend's house.	我们一群孩子聚集在一个朋友家里
And shortly after, we left the country, and we returned to Switzerland.	不久后，我们离开了加纳回到了瑞士
And I felt I was being typecast as an actor.	我觉得我被定型为一个演员
I was playing the violent African, the African terrorist.	或是暴力的非洲人非洲恐怖分子
I mean, nor had Ghana, even though we had been trying very hard.	加纳也是虽然我们都很努力的尝试过
I mean, today, Singapore is a First World country and Ghana is not.	现在新加坡是个发达国家而加纳不是
And then the cliche came to haunt us.	然后就出现了意料之中的状况
There were claims of intimidation at the polling stations, of ballot boxes being stolen.	投票站收到举报声称投票箱被窃取
The army started firing their guns. People were scrambling.	军队开始开火人群混乱不堪
They were chanting, "We want peace.	他们在呼喊"我们渴望和平"
After all, they decide, and they did.	毕竟是他们的抉择而他们这样做了
A democracy could be upheld peacefully.	民主可以以和平手段来实现
I mean, at the absolute time for the absolute need of democracy, they did not abuse their power.	在民主需要的时候他们没有滥用职权
I hope nobody finds that offensive.	希望没人会觉得没有意思。
And I started living down there on the beach for a long time.	我在那里的海滩上住了很久。
One day, somebody suggested I read this book.	有一天有个人推荐我读一本书，
And the story of that, I thought, was really fascinating.	这背后的故事我认为，特别有意思。
They changed the government, and it didn't work.	他们试图改革政府，没有成功，
And he did all these cute little experiments.	所以他做了一些有趣的小实验。
The actual nature of reality was not at issue.	不能谈到底这个自然的真相是什么。
And so you can start making up some rules.	接下来你就可以总结一些既定规则。
Not a whole lot of people doing this stuff.	这还不是说有很多人搞科研。
I was thinking about making my own little rockets.	于是我也想自己做个火箭。
And, I mean, that was my sort of goal.	我是说，这就是我的远大志向。
And it -- they burned.	这东西—这混合物点着了。
And, it smelt like burnt candy.	它闻起来像是烧焦了的糖。
And then I tried the melting business, and I melted it.	接着我试着熔化它，我做到了。
And then it melted into a little sort of syrupy liquid, brown.	它熔化成一小片糖浆一样的液体，
And it was -- I was following all the rules.	这就是—我就是这么一步步来的。
And I'd better get permission from the government.	而且要做也得向政府申请什么的。
You know, that's how you do science.	你知道，这是你应该怎么样作科研。
And then you figure out better and better ways to do it.	接着你就试出更好的办法来。
They made faster things.	科学家发明了更快的飞机，
That's back when travel was easy.	那时候到处跑还挺容易的。
So the temperature has been, sort of, inching up.	所以平均温度上升了一些。
So the planet should get warmer.	这样我们的星球就会变暖一点。
So the theory's kaput -- it's nothing.	所以这个全球变暖的理论—不成立。
This is an extremely new field.	这是一个非常前沿的领域。
Right now, the way we test for drugs is pretty problematic.	现在的药物测试法相当麻烦，
So we really have to change this.	所以我们必须改变这一做法。
The MTA will confiscate your camera."	捷运局会没收你的相机。"
Walking in this tunnel is very peaceful.	在这条地下道散步非常安静。
It must have been a very unusual day for him.	那对他来说可是不同寻常的一天啊！
It's very dangerous to get lost in there.	总是有在里面走失的危险。
This was probably the toughest place to explore.	这可能是最难探索的地方了。
This was taken inside an archaeological tunnel in the main temple.	这是在主庙的考古隧道里拍的。
I like doing more than just exploring these spaces.	我不仅喜欢探索这些地方，
This is not some sort of cultural thing for the time of year.	不是那种今年流行的文化问题
A little seed weighs next to nothing and a tree weighs a lot, right?	种籽很轻，而大树很重，是吗？
The third question is, why is it hotter in summer than in winter?	第三个问题，为什么夏天比冬天热？
And if you can, just scribble a pattern.	你画得出来的话，就把形状画出来
I'm not quite sure how he died, actually.	我不太清楚他的死因，真的
Was he beheaded in the end, or hung?	他最后上了断头台？还是被吊死？
But, actually, we don't do that.	不过实际上我们不会那么做
Now, I passed all my biology exams in Britain.	我在英国念书时考生物每考必过
Yes, you can, and I'll show you in a second how to do that.	是，你可以，我会示范怎么做。
Now, here's how you do the battery and the bulb.	电池和灯泡只要这要做就行
It's so easy, isn't it? Of course, you all knew that.	很简单，不是吗？你们都懂了
So, why is it hotter in summer than in winter?	那么，为何夏天比冬天热？
Other ones are kind of going like this. All right.	其他人只是这样子摇而已，好吧
OK, now, the scribble of the diagram of the solar system.	好，问题四是画出太阳系的平面图
So, here's Copernicus' view of what the solar system looked like as a plan.	左边是哥白尼画的太阳系平面图
That's pretty much what you should have on your piece of paper. Right?	跟你们纸上画的差不多，对吧
I hope you notice the coincidence here.	我希望大家注意其中的巧合
And the Exploratorium does that really, really well.	旧金山探索馆在这点做得非常好
And governments do very well. They pat themselves on the back.	政府也帮了不少忙，他们推波助澜
An obvious question, and you'll have an answer now in your heads.	这问题很好懂，大家心中也有答案了
Now -- oh, oh yeah, go on then, go on.	那么，噢，没关系，继续吧
I love manipulating the infrastructure of biology.	我喜欢研究生物学的基础领域。
And this seems quite a profound question.	这是个看起来有些深奥的问题。
Let's see if we can actually make life.	让我们看看，能不能真的制造生命。
Is life that improbable?"	生命真的是无法形成的吗？"
And in fact, let's take that one step further.	事实上，让我们更进一步的思考
And we also have to be aware of the issues.	我们必须对可能产生的问题谨慎看待
This is just a collection of pathways in the cell.	这只是一张细胞内代谢路径的总图
Synthetic biologists are manipulating it.	合成化学家正对细胞进行操作。
But what else is life characterized by?	但是生命的特质还有哪些？
And we went through a variety of worlds.	我们经历了多种多样的世界。
I'm not a politician, I'm a scientist.	我不是政治家，我是一名科学家。
So we have some kind of primordial soup.	因此地球上出现了某种原始汤
But life begins, what does that mean?	但是生命的出现意味着什么？
And the answer, of course, lies with mice.	至于答案，当然，就在老鼠身上。
I say, "Well I want molecules."	我说，"我想制造分子。"
So these things together give us evolution, perhaps.	所以也许这些事情共同使进化发生。
There's only maybe three or four different types of building blocks present.	现在可能只有三到四种不同的积木。
But we need to make some containers.	但是我们仍需要制作一些容器。
And this movie here shows this competition between molecules.	这部影片展示了分子间的竞争
They want their shape to persist.	他们想让自己的形态存活下来。
We should take our inspiration from biology.	我们应该从生物学中获取灵感。
So what does it mean about defining life?	给生命下个定义，这意味着什么？
They're called Millennium Development Goals.	这些目标被称为千年发展目标。
We have interviews, we have surveys.	我们进行访谈，深入调查。
If they died, at what age and what year?	假若死了，是于何年几岁死的？
Isn't it nice -- isn't it nice, yeah?	它是不是很棒？很棒，对吧？
We have a decent trend.	我们有了一个相当不错的趋势。
So they calculate the percent annual growth rate of [the] economy.	所以他们计算经济年均增长百分比。
An economist would never do that.	一个经济学家决不会这样做。
But then, in the '80s, watch out here.	但随后，在80年代，看看这里。
Congo got into civil war, and they leveled off here.	刚果经历内战，它们在这里持稳。
Ghana got very ahead, fast.	加纳以非常快的速度领先着。
That's where we are today.	这就是现在我们所处的境地。
And they are judged, each country, on how they are doing.	这得按各国情况来做评估。
And then, you see, these were famine years.	然后大家看到，这是饥荒年，
And eventually, soon they started to get better and better here.	不久之后，他们生活变好起来。
And they got safer water, they eradicated malaria.	他们有安全饮用水，消灭了疟疾。
And isn't it a success story.	这难道不是个成功的故事吗？
And these are the so-called "developing" countries.	这些国家是所谓的"发展中"国家。
They had low child mortality and small families.	他们有低儿童死亡率和小家庭。
And here Brazil is in the Western Box.	随后巴西也加入西方阵营。
Welcome to a decent life.	欢迎来过上一种体面的生活。
Come on. We want everyone down there.	来吧，我们想让每个人都加入我们。
There we are today.	这儿就是我们现在的事实。
This is the report from [the] U.N., which came out on Friday.	这是一份来自联合国2月份的报告。
This page is very bad; it's a categorization of countries.	这一页很糟糕。它给各国分类了。
They have the lowest child mortality in the world, Singapore.	新加坡在全球有最低的儿童死亡率。
How the heck could they be [a] developing country?	真见鬼把它们都归为发展中国家？
What is the importance now with the relations here.	重要的是了解这之间的关系。
It's very clear that this is what happens.	这发生的变化是很明显的。
But if you don't have money, what happens?	但要是你没有钱，会怎样呢？
They believe that things can be done.	他们相信事情是可以实现的。
Let me confirm what she said.	让我来证实我们刚刚讲到的。
Yes, I went barefoot until I was 12.	事实上，我一直到12岁都没有鞋穿
And incredible car.	这辆特殊的，令人难以置信的车。
And he told them, "Question the unquestionable.	他还告诉他们，"不要墨守成规。
Early morning he'll be coming back with sort of solutions.	然后在清早带着解决的方法回来了。
And the Nano team average age was just 27 years.	Nano团队的平均年龄才27岁。
Seeking solutions for non-auto sectors.	去寻求非汽车行业的解决方法。
The fuel lines and lamps were as in two-wheelers.	以及两轮车中的燃料管和灯。
The length is smaller by eight percent by the way.	车身长度缩短了百分之八。
And those dreams are getting fulfilled.	而这些梦想也得到了实现。
You have to design an artificial foot for such conditions.	你必须为这些情况设计一双假肢。
And therefore, you ought to look at alternatives.	因此，你应该想想替代方法。
I've been talking about getting more from less for more.	我一直在讲从花费更少中获得更多。
Psoriasis is very dreadful disease of the skin.	疥疮是一种非常可怕的皮肤病。
You know something? This has been achieved in India.	你知道吗？然而，在印度却实现了。
These targets have been achieved in India.	这些目标都在印度实现了。
You're not talking exclusive innovation.	你不是单纯地讨论专属的创新，
That's the new world that we want to create.	这就是我们想要创造的新世界。
And then he said, "This is the focal length."	然后他说，"这就是焦距。"
But then he held it for a little while, Lakshmi.	然后持续着这个动作一阵子。
But more importantly, focus and you can achieve.	更重要的是，专注然后你能达成。
It has parallel lines, which are sun rays.	这是一条平行线，是太阳光。
And the property of parallel lines is that they never meet.	平行线的性质就是永远不相遇。
They divide them farther.	他们让这些平行线隔得更远
For violin, you could get lessons for a violin.	想学小提琴，你可以报个小提琴班。
But what if you want to make an app?	但如果你想开发一个应用呢？
Where do you go to find out how to make an app?	那么你要怎样学习写应用呢？
I'd like to finish up by saying what I'd like to do in the future.	最后，我想谈谈我未来的计划。
And this probably is not what you're expecting.	这可能有些出乎大家的意料。
And I thought, you know, is this the best way to do it?	我在想，这真的是最好的办法了吗？
But that's a ton of power.	但那已经是很大的能量了。
And this is buried below ground, which is really important.	它是埋在地下的，这个非常重要。
But I'm not really concerned about the fuel.	但是我并不关心燃料的问题。
What are we doing with all the pits of those nuclear weapons?	怎么来处理那些核弹头呢？
And maybe something else.	呃，也许还有一些其他的用途。
That is the rocket designer's dream.	那是一个火箭设计师的梦想。
That could power a Martian community.	那都可以为一个火星人社区供电了。
That could power a rocket there.	那可以驱动一个火箭达到这个社区。
But we launch plutonium batteries all the time.	但是我们不是一直在发射钚电池嘛。
Those are all experiences. Think about TED itself.	那些都是体验。想想TED本身。
You know the words I mean?	你知道我指的是那五个吗？
With the service economy, it is about improving quality.	在服务经济关系到提升质量。
Rendering authenticity -- and the keyword is "rendering."	渲染真实性--关键词是"渲染"。
And it doth follow, as night the day, that thou canst not then be false to any man.	如夜以继日般奉行也不致对人虚假
And those three verses are the core of authenticity.	这三句话就是真实性的核心。
All right? Anybody else like that, no?	对吗？还有其他人这样吗？没有？
The opposite, of course, is -- fake fake.	相反的，当然了，--假假
We won't talk about Santa Claus then.	那我们就不谈圣诞老人了。
So, you have to understand that past.	所以，你必须要了解过去。
And think about the economic value they have provided by that experience.	想想他们通过体验创造的经济价值。
Right? Coffee, at its core, is what?	对吧？咖啡，它的核心是什么？
Right? It's beans; right? It's coffee beans.	对吗？是咖啡豆，对吗？是咖啡豆。
So, it has to end with this -- -- gratuitous violence.	所以，它的结局是--无厘头的暴力
So, I was able to sort of exercise all of that.	所以我把这些能力都锻炼了
Now, a completely different thought.	现在，一个完全不同的想法
I'm always imagining myself in different situations.	我经常设想自己身处不同的情形之中
So this is a little wire-bending tool.	这是一个弯曲金属丝的小工具
It completely changed what I could do.	它彻底改变了我所能做的事
Now here, I'm going to do a very poor job of silver soldering.	这里我将做一个粗糙的银焊工作
The object itself just means nothing.	这个物体本身仅仅是毫无意义
I remember one of the first times we were looking at collagen.	我记得有一次我们在研究胶原蛋白
Early Embryo Yolk sack still feeding Baby.	胚胎早期卵黄依然给予胚胎营养
45 Days Embryo's heart is beating twice as fast as the mother's.	第45天胎儿的心速是母亲的一倍
It's just a tiny sub-substructure, microscopic.	只是一个很小的，微观的结构
But we are crazy. We do these things.	但我们疯了。我们做这些事。
And I was saying, "No, excuse me.	可我只能说,"不,抱歉,
Now, what we can do with the spectra?	现在,我们可以研究光谱,
Because can you imagine everything boiling?	因为你可以想像所有东西都沸腾吗?
And I thought, you know, I am a storyteller.	我对自己说，我是一个讲故事的人。
I collect stories; that's what I do.	我收集故事；这就是我的工作。
And maybe stories are just data with a soul.	或许故事就是有灵魂的数据。
And maybe I'm just a storyteller.	或许我就是一个讲故事的人。
So where I started was with connection.	所以我的起点是"关系"。
It's what gives purpose and meaning to our lives.	它赋予了我们生命的意义。
And you know how I feel about vulnerability. I hate vulnerability.	你知道我怎么看待脆弱。我恨它。
What's the theme? What's the pattern?	主题是什么？有什么规律？
What they had in common was a sense of courage.	这些人的共同之处在于勇气。
They just talked about it being necessary.	他们只是简单地认为脆弱是必须的。
They thought this was fundamental.	他们觉得这些都是最根本的。
Don't bring your measuring stick."	别带上你的标尺来见我。"
For me, it was a yearlong street fight.	对我来说，那是长达一年的斗争。
Vulnerability pushed, I pushed back.	脆弱打我一拳，我又还击它一拳。
Why do we struggle with it so much?	为什么我们为之痛苦挣扎？
Am I alone in struggling with vulnerability?	我是独自在跟脆弱斗争吗？
We live in a vulnerable world.	我们活在一个脆弱的世界里。
And one of the ways we deal with it is we numb vulnerability.	我们应对的方法之一是麻痹脆弱。
You can't say, here's the bad stuff.	你不能说，这些是不好的。
You cannot selectively numb.	你无法有选择性地去麻痹。
I'm right, you're wrong. Shut up.	我是对的，你是错的。闭嘴。
A way to discharge pain and discomfort.	一种发泄痛苦与不快的方式。
Let me tell you what we think about children.	让我告诉你我们是如何看待孩子的。
We pretend that what we do doesn't have an effect on people.	我们假装我们的行为不会影响他人。
We do that in our personal lives.	不仅在我们个人生活中我们这么做，
But there's another way, and I'll leave you with this.	但还有一种方法，我把它留给你们。
Can I be this fierce about this?"	我能不能如此矢志不渝？"
It tracks your movement through space.	它记录你在空间里的一举一动。
It is, as you can see, very small and also very cheap.	如你所见，它又小又便宜。
This tracks your activity and also your sleep.	它记录你的活动，你的睡眠。
It has just that sensor in it.	它不过只是装了个传感器罢了。
And this is the sleep tracking system of today.	这个是今时今日的睡眠追踪系统。
Some people will say it's for public health research.	一些人会说它是为了公众健康调查。
And those questions all have variables to them.	每个人的问题和解答都不同
All of our statuses are different.	因为我们每个人的状况都不一样，
Each of them can have a different characteristic.	他们每个人都具有不同的特质。
What I love about this, just sort of interesting design problems.	我喜欢的是这其中有趣的设计思路。
These are why people pray.	这些是人们做祷告的原因，
This is a report about a drug called lithium.	这篇文章报道了一种药，叫做锂。
And they call the Internet irresponsible.	他们控诉互联网的不负责任。
Here's the implication of what happens.	这暗示了接下来发生的状况。
It's never going to work. You can't do it."	这样是没用的，你们无法做到。"
Full information, the entire course of their disease.	这就是他们患病的整个过程，
It's actually scary. It's beautiful.	这看起来完美得令人触目惊心。
These are all the patients that started lithium.	这些是所有开始使用"锂"的病人。
So, you can see we matched them perfectly, perfectly.	你可以看到，这些数据完美地一致，
Those little lines? That's the power.	那些短线是什么呢？那就是强度
And he sent me this two days ago.	于是两天前，他发送了这个给我。
And, you know, I look at this, and I get really emotional.	我看着这些我变得非常激动。
Why can't we solve these problems?	为什么我们不能解决这些问题？
I remember March the 15th, 2000.	我记得是2000年的3月15日
It was the sequencing for the first time of the human genome.	这就是对人类基因组的首次测序
Think of the space that we spend most of our time.	试想一下我们大部分时间所在的场所
We're trying to heat up the space that we're in, and all that is trying to get out through the window.	我们则对屋子加热防止热量散出
I'm going to show to TEDsters, the first time, this operating.	我将向诸位独家首次展示它
And you can see, off a tiny film, incredible clarity.	你可以清晰地看到胶片后面的物体
But because it's flexible, it can be on any surface whatsoever.	因为它灵活可变性可适用于任何表面
18 years ago, I saw a photograph in the paper.	18年前我在报纸上看到一幅照片
I've carried this photograph with me every day since then.	自此我一直将这张照片随身携带
It'll never happen. You don't have enough money.	不会成功的你没有足够的资金
This is coming from the heart of finance.	这个问题产生于金融的核心。
You encode it into equations.	你再把数学模型编译为数学方程。
As a result, networks are ideal representations of complex systems.	因此，网络是复杂系统的理想代表。
Where are economic networks?	经济体系的网络又在哪里呢？
What we looked at in detail was ownership networks.	我们仔细研究的是所有权网络。
And what is the overall distribution of control?	总体的控制力分布究竟是什么？
In other words, who controls the world?	换句话说，谁主宰着世界？
I think this is an interesting question.	我认为这是一个十分有趣的问题。
And it has implications for systemic risk.	这其中包含了系统危机的深层含义。
This is the TNC network which we analyzed.	这是我们分析的一个TNC网络。
Well, ownership gives voting rights to shareholders.	所有权赋予股东以投票权。
And the network really matters.	这个网络真的有助于我们的分析。
What should you take home from all of this?	从中你能够得到什么启示呢？
Our study "is an impression of the moon's surface.	我们的研究只是较为表面的东西，
Now there is still a big problem, in my opinion.	如今在我看来仍然有一个大问题。
But this is just my own personal ideology.	但这仅仅是我的个人理想。
Now this one's the tomato tickler.	这是一张西红柿花粉振动器的照片
I got drawn into the honeybee world completely by a fluke.	我被吸引到蜜蜂世界完全源于偶然。
Now this society has no central authority.	这个社会并没有中央权力。
We've found that propolis is a natural disinfectant.	我们发现蜂胶是天然的消毒剂。
This small bee is holding up a large mirror.	小小的蜜蜂正举着一面巨大的镜子。
How much is it going to take to contaminate humans?	要污染到人类需要多少呢？
But what if I lived in a food desert?	尤其，如果我生活在食物荒漠中呢？
And it's not just our honeybees.	而且这不仅仅关于我们的蜜蜂。
These bees are providing backup for our honeybees.	这些蜂类是我们蜜蜂的后备力量。
Plant them in a pot on your doorstep.	把它们种到你门口台阶的花盆中
And we need to diversify our farms.	我们需要让我们的农田多样化。
About 20 years ago, we were at a 15-percent loss.	大约20年前，这个数据是15%。
We can't really afford to lose that many more.	我们其实不能承担失去更多了。
But there is another world.	但是，还有另外一个世界。
In infrastructure, let's just take one example.	在基础设施方面，我们举个例子，
And I don't mean automated machines.	我的意思不是自动化设备。
We need a few simple ingredients.	我们只需要一些简单的条件，
You shake it hard and it breaks apart.	你使劲儿一摇，它就散架了。
One of those is in extreme environments.	其中之一就是在极限环境下。
And space is a great example of that.	太空就是一个非常好的例子。
Let's go back to infrastructure.	我们再回到基础设施建设。
And we're developing a new paradigm for piping.	正在开发一种新的管道模板。
So we were up on top of our bunk beds.	于是我们爬到了双层床的上铺
Did you see how you landed?	你看到你是怎么落地的么？
No human lands on all fours like that.	人类是不会那样四脚朝地落下去的
But normal is merely average.	但是正常这个概念只是指的平均水平
Which, even at Yale, is extraordinarily rare.	这个病，在耶鲁都是其极罕见的
Tuesday night it's school violence and bullying.	周二晚上讲校园暴力和恃强欺弱问题
And if I'm more successful, then I'll be happier.	如果我更成功，我就会更快乐
Which means we can reverse the formula.	这意味着我们可以彻底改变这个准则
Exercise teaches your brain that your behavior matters.	实践告诉人们你的行为是很重要的
O.K., so, everyone has a computer.	好吧,每个人都有自己的计算机
Even a mobile phone, it's a computer.	甚至一部手机也算是台计算机
I grew up in a tofu factory in Seattle.	我在西雅图的一家豆腐厂里长大
The torture was good. Wasn't it good torture?	逆境出人才受点磨难不好么?
And my mother was a kind of a designer, also.	我母亲从某种意义上来说也是设计师
Remember that moment? It felt so good, didn't it?	记得那一刻吗?感觉特好,是不是?
And when my professors saw this, they were very upset at me.	我的教授们看到这个时都生气极了
And he says, Well, when's it going to stop?	然后他说那么它什么时候停下来?
It lasts forever. It's a very strange medium.	它持续永久一种很奇怪的媒介
And someone sits down and draws a picture.	然后一个人坐下来画一副画
And that little program's on that cardboard disk.	那个小程序被输入到那张纸板盘中
And so, after this I began to do experiments for different companies.	在这之后我开始为不同公司做试验
And Chanel. So, getting to do different projects.	还有香奈尔是的我开始做不同的项目
And also, one thing I realized is that I like to make things.	而且我意识到一件事我喜欢创造
And so I never developed the ability to have a staff.	因此我从不尝试去招募员工
And so, I began to think more carefully about the computer.	后来我开始更认真地思考计算机
We're so used to working in one vector.	我们习惯于在一个维度上工作
And so it keeps thinking out loud of its own abstraction.	它一直努力思考自身的抽象性
This I found, where nature had made a picture for me.	我发现这自然创造的美好画面
We have this gene defect in our mind.	在我们的头脑中我们有这个基因瑕疵
I put these all back, by the way.	顺便说一下我可把它们都放回去了的
It's about how to make it more humane again.	而是如何把它重新变得更人性化
How do we know that?	我们怎么知道这个事实呢？
Now there is another side to this.	现在讲到这还要提另一方面。
Now I'm not advocating for bullies.	我这不是鼓动要持强凌弱。
And the answer is no, he's just a boy.	答案是不应该，他只是个男孩。
It's not okay to write these kinds of things in classrooms today.	现在在课堂上还不能写这些东西。
Women are great. Yep, absolutely.	女老师很棒。是的，的确。
"What are we going to do with these boys?"	"我们要拿这些男孩怎么办？"
The answer to that question changes depending on who's sitting around that table.	问题的答案取决于谁当时在场。
Indirectly, that's what she tells them.	间接地，她指示了男孩该做什么。
We need to meet them where they are.	我们要迎合男孩们的需求。
We can design better games.	我们可以设计更好玩的游戏。
We need to find more money for game design.	我们要给游戏设计投资更多的钱。
And they say these things as if it's okay.	她们说这些话好像是没关系似的。
Of course, the verdict is not definitive.	当然这一结论并非板上钉钉
And this, in a nutshell, is the essence of the Higgs story.	总而言之它是发现希格斯粒子的关键
Is this a problem? Yes, it's a big a problem.	这有什么问题呢？这是一个大问题
No molecular structures would be possible, no life.	分子结构也不可能形成没有生命
So is this how humanity is going to disappear?	所以这就是人类最后灭绝的方式吗？
Theoretical physicists always ask "why" questions.	理论物理学家经常问"为什么"
You know, just like people on the street when you get too close to them.	就像你接近大街上的人一样。
Some people reacted in terror.	有些人的反应会显得很恐慌。
You may never experience the entire thing yourself.	你可能从未经历过这种事情。
But, but this seems a bit unfair, right?	但，这样好像有点不公平，对吧？
So I decided to create a piece which is a self-portrait piece.	所以我决定做一件"自录像"。
From a teenager, I'm transformed into my current self.	从年轻人，我又变成现在的我。
So, in doing so, you're erasing time.	所以，这么做，你擦去的是时间。
What is it about flying cars?	为什么飞行汽车让我们痴迷？
We've wanted to do this for about a hundred years.	一百年前我们就开始想建造它
Now this also, as good as it is, wasn't quite enough.	这听上去不简单了不过还不够好
You can see there the wings folded up just along the side of the plane.	它的机翼折起收在机身两侧
You're not powering the propeller, you're powering the wheels.	引擎推动的不是螺旋桨而是车轮
And it is under seven feet tall, so it will fit in a standard construction garage.	不到七尺高这样就能开进标准车库
There are thousands of local airstrips that don't see nearly as many aircraft operations a day as they could.	上千条地区性飞机跑道使用率非常低
And mobility to your destination is clearly solved.	而目的地交通问题也解决了
Just fold up the wings and keep going.	只要收起机翼继续开就好了
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to share it with you.	感谢大家让我能由此机会与你分享！
That part of the relationship went fine.	在幽默感这方面我们很和谐。
Now let's look at this cartoon.	来，现在让我们看看这幅漫画。
And one of the things that you realize is it's an unusual environment.	你会体会到这是一个特殊的环境。
Here I'm one person talking to you.	现在是我一个人给你们大家演讲。
Right? You thought it was funny.	对吧，你觉得这个确实挺好笑的。
But look at the individual responses.	让我们看看一些具体的回复吧！
Other people thought it was funny.	其他人则认为这幅漫画很有趣
But they mostly are going to be rejected.	但是绝大多数的点子都会被毙掉。
That's the nature of any creative activity.	这在创意活动中的正常现象。
No. It's about us.	当然不是。漫画讲的是我们。
There's an incongruity and a contrast.	既不协调，又有对比鲜明。
He is both being polite and rude.	画中人既带着礼貌，又带着粗鲁。
So I'm a humor analyst, you would say.	你会说，我是幽默分析家。
Nobody is much interested, and the frog dies.	没人真正感兴趣，并且会杀死青蛙。
This guy. Who is he? He's the critic.	这家伙，他是谁呢？他就是批评家。
Normally I would but I'm in a pissy mood.	一般我会要的，但现在我很挑剔。
That's sort of an exaggeration of what I do.	这个场面其实是有些夸张了。
"Ass-head. Please help."	"屁股-头儿，请帮帮我吧！"
I'm going to explain why.	我来解释一下为什么这么说。
So there the violation is malign. It doesn't work.	如果有恶意的违规那就不好笑了。
There is no such thing as funny in and of itself.	没有什么东西是它本身就好笑的，
You want to be stimulated. You want to be aroused.	你想得到刺激。你想被逗笑。
It's like this, like an amusement park.	这就象，去一个娱乐主题公园一样。
That's a cartoon about terrorism.	这是一幅关于恐怖分子的漫画。
That was a black hole for humor, and correctly so.	那是幽默的黑洞，绝对是。
It's not always appropriate every time.	有的时候，幽默确实是不妥当的。
We were going to exist. Here's another one.	我们就得存在着。这是另一幅。
The humor reflects back on us.	这些幽默折射我们的生活。
It's called dispositional humor.	这样的幽默叫做意向性幽默。
"You slept with her, didn't you?"	"你和她上床了，对不？"
"Lassie! Get help!!"	"莱西！快找人帮我!!"
Now there are some cartoons that are puzzling.	也有些漫画呢，让人费解。
How many people know what this cartoon means?	有谁知道这幅漫画的意思？
This is the signal for a catcher to walk the dog.	这是让接球手去溜狗的信号。
So I'll ask you another question.	所以，我要再问你们一个问题。
So, actually, he tried making it compulsory.	于是，他最后采取了强制的措施。
So he tried plan B.	于是，他又想了另一个办法。
He made it compulsory for prostitutes to wear the veil.	他规定妓女必须佩戴面纱。
All value is perceived value.	所有的价值都是感知价值。
Second point is that persuasion is often better than compulsion.	第二点是说服往往要比强制更有效。
Not so in Italy.	但是在意大利却不是这样。
It patently veers toward propaganda.	显然这个因素就是宣传作用。
Nowadays, the user is actually involved.	现如今，用户都已经进化了。
In the world of food we call it cooking.	在食物的角度来看我们叫它烹饪。
Yet we've never created the opportunity for impulse saving.	我们永远不会鼓动消费者即兴省钱。
Now, I've got an example here from Canada.	现在我要举出一个加拿大的例子。
I would say it's a work of genius.	我不得不说这是天才之作。
So drink your wine blind in the future.	所以以后喝酒就别看价钱了。
Two quotations to more or less end with.	差不多引用这两句作为结尾吧。
Because they help people share news.	因为这有助于人们分享信息。
One day, I bought a yo-yo.	有一天，我买了个溜溜球。
I was spending all my time practicing.	我把我所有的时间都用在练习上，
I realized society didn't value my passion.	我意识到，社会不重视我的热情。
I passed an audition for Cirque du Soleil.	我通过了太阳马戏团的试镜。
If, if, if, then.	如果，如果，如果，那么。
Or design out of chaos, without the aid of mind.	或者说没有想法也能设计出混乱。
There's one word I love on that slide.	这句话中有个词我很喜欢。
SB: Must, at must. Must, must.	必须，一定。必须，必须。
Must is my favorite word there.	"一定"是我最喜欢的词。
Darwin didn't, of course; he didn't know about genes.	达尔文，当然，他不知道基因。
The information that is copied, he called the replicator.	通过复制的信息，他称之为副本。
This is information copied with variation and selection.	这就是有变异和选择的信息复制
Some, it's quite hard to tell why.	还有一些，很难讲是为什么。
There's one particular curious meme which I rather enjoy.	有一种特别的好奇迷因我很喜欢。
Who folded that thing up there, and why?	谁把它叠成那样，为什么？
So, this is a view of what humans are.	所以这是个观点关于什么是人类。
Let's call them techno-memes or temes.	我们称它们为技术迷因或者说技因。
We began, perhaps 5,000 years ago, with writing.	我们大概在5000年前开始书写。
Now, what about what else is going on out there in the universe?	现在，那么宇宙中还发生些什么呢？
People have been asking this question for a long time.	人们问这个问题已经很久了。
And on that basis, I've suggested a different kind of equation.	基于这个，我建议一个不同的等式。
Just start with the number of planets there are in our galaxy.	仅仅从我们星系中的行星数量开始。
We may take the Gaian view.	我们可能采用盖安的观点。
Well, we did pull through on this planet.	我们确实在这个星球摆脱了。
How many mothers do we have here?	我们在座的有多少位母亲？
My cat gave birth to four kittens, purring all the time.	我的猫生了四只小猫，喵喵得不停。
Why? Because it's producing the memes.	为什么？因为它产生迷因。
But maybe it nearly did.	但是或许它几乎这么做了。
They're just information, why would they?	它们只是信息--它们怎么会呢？
It's coming, but we're not there yet.	我们在接近，但是还没有。
We've all seen the photos of the collapsed buildings in Haiti.	我们都看到过海地建筑坍塌的照片。
This is the national palace -- the equivalent of the White House.	这是国家宫殿，相当于白宫。
The general hospital right next door emerged largely unscathed.	学校旁边的综合医院基本安然无恙。
We haven't heard about why the buildings failed.	我们不了解为什么这些建筑会坍塌。
We inspected schools and private residencies.	我们检查过的有学校和私人住所。
Behind that door is the National Judicial Archives.	那扇门后是国家司法档案馆。
Now there's a solution to all these problems.	现在对所有这些问题有个解决方案。
What was the difference between Chile and Haiti?	智利与海地之间有什么不同？
And the questions usually have a very particular format.	这些问题通常有特定的格式
There's an enormous amount of anatomical variation.	它解剖学上的差异也是极其巨大的
Most of the time it's a flexible organ.	大部分时间它是一个灵活的器官
And moreover, it has to work.	更重要的是,它必须正常工作
And a hydrostatic skeleton uses two elements.	一个零静力骨架有两个要素
It has to be part of the explanation.	它肯定在臌胀中起了一定作用
I'm not sure this project's going to pan out."	我不确定它能不能出结果"
Because he was afraid I was walking into a trap.	因为他害怕我会陷入一个困境
What are you going to contribute?	你的研究可以做出什么贡献?
And I thought, "Yeah, he does have a really good point here."	我想,"是啊,他的想法很有道理"
So something interesting had to be going on.	所以其中一定有什么有意思的事情
Why was everyone surprised at this?	为什么每个人都感到惊讶?
They're an integral part of the penile skeleton.	它们是阴茎骨骼中的重要组成部分
It's in every language I've had experience with so far.	几乎我目前遇见的所有语言都是如此
But at the end of this process, what I learned was that the nurses were wrong.	但在研究结束后我发觉护士们是错的
People now solved seven questions on average.	平均突然从四题变成了七题
We got a lot of people cheating by stealing by a little bit.	仍有许多人为了很少的金钱作弊
What about the probability of being caught?	那难道是被抓到的可能性吗？
Some people shredded half the sheet of paper, so there was some evidence left.	有些人只撕了半张纸还有些证据留下
And we thought maybe what is happening is that there are two forces.	于是我们想，或许有两种力量
We call this like a personal fudge factor.	我们说这叫"自我蒙混因素"
Now, how would you test a personal fudge factor?	但我们该如何测试自我蒙混因素呢？
A third of the people we passed the sheet, they gave it back to us.	三分之一的人把试验纸交会给我们
These things feel very differently.	这些事给人的感觉差异很大
Our subjects doubled their cheating.	我们实验对象的作弊情况提高了两倍
So, we did another experiment.	所以，我们又做了另一个实验
They cheat just by a little bit, all the same.	他们只作了一点小弊，但都一样
What would happen to the other people in the group?	这会对在场的其他人有什么影响？
Will they cheat more, or will they cheat less?	他们会作更多的弊，或是相反？
So it wasn't so much about the probability of being caught again.	所以这和被抓到的几率无关
The question is, are we going to test those intuitions?	问题是，我们该去检视这些直觉吗？
She said, "Of course, you know, it was very painful for you.	她说"当然，那对你来说很痛苦
And she said maybe part of the reason was it was difficult for her.	她说，或许对她来说如此困难是因为
So it's not run by the authorities or the state.	没有机构或者国家可以管理它
It's actually managed by the network.	它通过网络节点进行集体管理
And if you think about it, reputation has now become a currency.	仔细想想，口碑也是一种货币
You think about rewards schemes, air miles.	我们都知道激励计划、里程兑换等等
Is technology making paper money feel outmoded?	纸质货币会不会被高科技所淘汰
You know, you think about, brands are starting to fill the gaps.	细想一下品牌和企业正在填补
Anyways, I... where to start?	然后，我……从哪儿开始说呢？
Well I guess I have to now.	这样一来，我就不得不说了。
I have a tape of yours at home."	我家还有一盘你的带子。"
Then — Will I keep going?	然而——我还要继续说吗？
It's actually a Scottish piece I've chosen.	我选择的是一首苏格兰乐曲。
So we're gonna play something together anyway.	但是我们还是要一起演奏一曲。
We had a great opportunity.	我们得到了一个很好的机会。
Sorry, I hate to carry on...	不好意思，我也不想再继续说了……
He never went back to school.	从那以后，他再也没有回去上学。
They too did not enjoy the privilege of college education.	他们也没有享受到大学教育的特权
They were too busy building a family and a country.	他们在忙于建设家庭和国家。
And this is the great team that helped us make it happen.	这是帮助我们实现这一切的伟大团队
They are doing it because of one motivation only.	他们这样做因为只有一个动机。
So for example, let's take area.	所以例如，我们选择面积。
Moving along, what about the area of this figure?	继续向前，这个图形的面积是多少？
We don't replace teachers, by the way.	顺便说下，我们不想代替教师
But we discovered it by self-exploration.	但是我们是通过自我发掘发现的。
It basically means to be human and to do the right thing.	它基本的意思是做正确事的人。
The most important thing is to be a mensch."	最重要的事情就是君子。"
I came to the U.K. 21 years ago as an asylum-seeker.	二十一年前我来到英国寻求庇护。
But first of all, I want you to do me a favor.	首先，我想请大家帮我一个忙。
Can you imagine your world without it?	你能想象没有手机的生活吗？
It is an anticorrosive heat conductor.	钽是一种抗腐蚀的导热体。
It is so powerful that we only need tiny amounts.	钽的性能非常优良因此用量很小。
But don't throw away your phones yet.	不过暂时不要扔掉你的手机。
Coltan is easily controlled by armed groups.	钶钽铁矿很容易被武装组织控制。
It has truly revolutionized the way we communicate on the planet.	它彻底变革了人类沟通的方式。
So we are faced with a paradox.	因此我们深处一个两难境地。
The mobile phone is an instrument of freedom and an instrument of oppression.	手机既能带来自由又会引起压迫。
But we're not there yet.	然而我们的使命尚未完成。
I missed my family and the friends I left behind.	我想念留在国内的家人和朋友。
It is time to demand fair trade phones.	现在是倡导手机公平贸易的时候了。
This is an idea worth spreading. Thank you.	这是一个值得传播的理念。谢谢。
This is about a hidden corner of the labor market.	劳动力市场上有个角落倍受冷落。
You're going to have a busy lunchtime rush.	繁忙的午餐时间马上就道了。
They'd have to be available at very competitive rates.	他们的工资得很有竞争力，
They do exist. Here's how they work.	它们确实存在。它们是这样运作的。
And they would all be legally compliant by doing this booking.	满足了所有法律规定的要求
Of course, they're all trained to work in warehouses.	当然，他们对于仓库工作训练有素。
The people on the top row are the provenly reliable ones.	最上面一行的人，是最可靠的。
It's all extremely low overhead.	它把所有额外开销降到最低。
Basically classified adverts with a search facility.	基本上只有分类广告与搜索引擎。
Suppose we stopped taking that for granted.	假设我们不再把它想当然。
And for that they have to be able to access state-of-the-art markets.	为此他们必须能够接近最新的市场。
And it puts some obligations on those operators.	并赋予这些经营者一些义务。
Could we use the same model?	我们能使用相同的模式吗？
Think of it as a regulated public utility.	把它当作受监管的公用事业。
So, taxi journeys might be one example.	所以，的士旅途可能是一个例子。
Should they be looking at other sectors?	他们要不要看看别的部门呢？
This is a world of atomized capitalism.	这是一个原子化的资本主义世界
Before I left, I actually asked him if I could get him something.	在我走之前，我问他是否需要些什么
So a few of the stories.	这是众多案例中的几个故事
All these pictures are from Zimbabwe.	所有这些照片都来自津巴布韦
So I quit my job and decided that that's the subject that I wanted to tackle.	所以我辞掉工作从事我真正想做的事
I've always been very worried about resource.	我一直都对资源问题充满担忧。
And those resources are going away.	而相对应的资源也是快速消逝。
Fusion is very hard to do.	核聚变实施起来困难重重。
I was a strange child.	我跟你说过，我是个怪胎。
So, uranium, which is very big, wants to split.	因此大体积的铀元素就想要分裂，
And it's this reaction that we want to do.	这个反应也正是我们所需要的。
There is one trickiness about this reaction.	但这个反应有一个棘手之处，
The trickiness about the reaction is that tritium doesn't exist in nature.	那就是氚元素在大自然中并不存在。
And that's the way you make your tritium.	这就是生成氚元素的方式。
And, in fact, we've done this.	事实上，我们曾经做过这样的事情。
We hold it with a magnetic field.	我们用一个磁场来承担这个高温。
This is the device we're building now.	这是我们正在建造的装置。
We have to get to this.	我们还需要把这些能量转化为电能。
But it was exactly the opposite in Egypt.	但是在埃及情况正好相反。
It was also people's deep longing for freedom.	这也是人们对于自由的长久的诉求。
I think it might be a lifeline.	我却认为这可以成为一条生命线
I can help you with those later.	我一会儿可以为你们解答它们。
Now the parents are really alarmed.	现在爸爸妈妈们可真要竖起耳朵了
We've also found an unintended consequence.	我们也得到了一个出乎意料的结果
But I just started again an hour ago."	但一个小时前我又割腕了。"
That last one's an actual text message that we received.	最后这条短信是我们真正收到过的
No one hears you in a stall, you're just texting quietly.	没人听得到，你只是默默地打字
But the thing that really makes this awesome is the data.	但真正让这件事变得不凡的是数据
I want to prevent this shit from happening.	我想从源头上预防这种烂事
The police did it. It used to be just guess work, police work.	实例。曾经警察的工作有如猜谜
And then they started crime mapping.	后来他们开始绘制犯罪地图
So think about the data from a crisis text line.	我们来想想危机短信热线的数据
Scientists and engineers change the world.	科学家和工程师们改变这个世界。
Because it's not failure itself that constrains us.	因为不是失败本身束缚了我们。
One year later, the next declarations of impossibilities began.	一年后，又一个不可能宣言开始了。
It took a lot of failures to get there.	失败了很多次才最终取得成功。
And it's pointed at the hypersonic glider.	用于拍摄特超音速滑翔机。
This is the actual rocketcam footage from flight one.	这是一段来自首次飞行的真实录像。
You can't learn to fly at Mach 20 unless you fly.	你飞不了20马赫除非你继续飞。
In fact, the hummingbird is the only bird that can fly backwards.	事实上，蜂鸟是唯一能后退飞行的鸟
It can fly in all directions, even backwards.	它能向各个方向飞行甚至向后飞
This prototype aircraft is equipped with a video camera.	这个原型机配有一个视频摄像头
Failure is part of creating new and amazing things.	失败是创造美妙新事物的必经之路
Or perhaps, Spider Man will one day be Gecko Man.	或者，蜘蛛人有一天将变成壁虎人
So much for Velcro, right?	这就是所谓魔术贴，对不对？
Electrical pulses form the thoughts in our brains.	电脉冲在我们的大脑里形成思想。
And his thoughts made him reach for Katie.	而他的思想使他联系到了凯蒂。
It allows us to amplify our voices and our power as a group.	它使我们放大群体的声音和力量。
Two letters, an L and an O, now a worldwide force.	两个字母L和O如今成为全球力量。
Now I want to say, this is not easy.	现在，我想说这并不容易。
It's hard to hold onto this feeling, really hard.	坚持这种想法很难，真的很难。
Jason Harley did that for me.	詹森･哈利就为我做了这样的事情。
He was encouraging, but firm.	他在鼓励我，但态度很果断。
And you have to revisit these questions over time.	而且你不得多次重温这些问题。
Now our responsibility is to push that edge.	现在，我们的责任是不断地推进技术
I think you couldn't be human if you didn't ask those questions.	既然是人都会问过那些问题。
I think that we learn as time goes on.	我觉得我们在不断地学习。
My job is one of the most exhilarating jobs you could have.	我的工作是最令人振奋的工作之一
I work with some of the most amazing people.	我跟非常优秀的人一起工作
And then the financial collapse happened.	继而随着金融世界的崩盘，
These are the boom-and-bust refugees.	这些就是那兴衰背后的难民
So let's forget your environmental footprint.	那么让我们暂时忘却你的环境足迹
Now, recently I've been told I've been taking the high road.	最近有人说我选择了崇高的方式
They aren't supposed to be out at large."	而不是成群地被放出去。"
So we had a lot of this going on.	所以我们有许多这样的场景。
That's what they had all their lives.	他们生活里本来就充满了这些东西。
Why would you bring us to this goddamn place?"	你为什么把我们带到这个鬼地方？"
And I would say, "Relax, Alex.	然后我会说，"放松，亚历克斯。
And who is this guy, Alex, to begin with?	这个亚历克斯是怎样的一个人呢？
I want to say a few words about vision.	我想简单介绍一下这个项目的愿景。
And one of these principles is focus.	这些原则中的一条就是专注。
It literally propels you upwards.	这真的会驱使你继续前进。
And that's how they develop self-esteem.	这正是他们建立自尊自信的方法。
You stand with your bike at the beginning of February.	在二月初你站在自行车旁。
We walked 120 kilometers until we reached Sudan.	我们走了120公里一直走到苏丹。
That confirms its existence and its importance.	那能确认自我的存在感和重要性
I was a noticeable nobody.	我是一个引人注意的没有人
I would put all my emotional expression into my dancing.	我会把我所有的感情投入到舞蹈中去
"Because, Thandie, that's not accurate.	"因为，桑迪，肤色并不准确。
I still believed my self was all I was.	我依旧相信我的自我就是我的全部
I'm earthed in my essence, and my self is suspended.	我根植于我的本源我的自我被抑制了
It's because I didn't have a self to get in the way.	那是因为我没有一个自我挡在中间
I stopped giving it so much authority.	我不再给我的自我过多的权利
I've become very familiar with its dysfunctional behavior.	我已经非常熟悉自我的不正常运作了
But I'm not ashamed of my self.	但我并不为我的自我感到羞愧
In fact, I respect my self and its function.	事实上，我尊重我的自我和它的功能
Let's live with each other and take it a breath at a time.	让我们生活在一起歇一口气，慢慢来
We knew it from the day we were born.	我们从出生那天就知道的联系
Let's not be freaked out by our bountiful nothingness.	我们无须因为大量的空虚而慌张
And this is a cafe by the sea in Britain.	这是英国靠海的一座咖啡馆
I think we all kind of stand and watch.	我觉得我们都曾站在一旁观看过
So it felt this has a social dimension.	它引起来社会层面上的问题
And it has to be -- I'm trying to get my -- 250 feet high.	它要--让我想想--200尺高
So we won the competition to build the U.K. pavilion.	我们赢得了建造英国馆的比赛
And an expo is a totally bonkers thing.	世博会完全就是件疯狂的事
It's the world's biggest ever expo that had ever happened.	世上未曾有过的最大的世博会
And the British government saying, "You need to be in the top five."	而英国政府说"你要进前五"
So we suddenly realized that there was this thing.	我们突然间意识到这是件重要的事
But this phenomenal project's been happening.	但是这庞大的项目还在进行中
And the film "Jurassic Park" actually really helped us.	事实上电影"侏罗纪公园"帮了我们
So that was also in the mix with the site the size of a football pitch.	这又要牵扯到足球场大小的场地问题
And so there was one particular toy that gave us a clue.	有件特殊的玩具给了我们灵感
And so the rest of the site was a public space.	所以地块其余部分就是公共场所
A key thing was how people would interact.	关键在于如何让人们与之互动
But there was an underlying support.	但是它还是有基本的支持的
TH: I'm sorry about my stupid voice there.	我的声音比较难听不好意思
The lowest value is actually the bottom part of a tower like this.	像这种大楼最底层价值是最低的
That's a quote from T. S. Eliot, a little more than 50 years ago.	这是50多年前艾略特的一段话。
Well, in fact, the arts are not in decline.	好了，事实上，艺术并没有衰败。
People are staying away from elite art and criticism.	人们正在远离精英艺术和批评。
Well, the other hot button is parenting.	好了，另一个敏感问题是养育子女。
That would make them super-similar, right?	这将会使他们超级相似，对吗？
And that presents us with a choice.	这把一个选择放在了我们面前。
And the job in question was sheep rancher.	那天所要体验的工作是"牧羊工人"
The job in question: herding sheep. Great.	今天的工作是-牧羊。很好。
So, normally, I never do any research at all.	平时，我从来不会做任何准备
And they said, "The band is applied to the tail, tightly.	他们回答"先紧紧圈住尾巴，
OK, that's basically how you do it.	简单来说，这就是大家公认的方法
Albert is the shepherd in question.	亚伯特是今天的主角-牧羊人
And he pulled it toward him, like so, and he took the knife and he put it on the tip.	他把它拉到自己眼前把刀抵在那尖端
We don't fool around, we don't rehearse -- we shoot what we get!	我们不做假，也不排练拍了就完了！
I said, "Stop. This is nuts."	我说，"听。这太疯狂了。
And Albert's like, "What?"	亚伯特觉得很奇怪，问"怎么了？"
And he says, "Like the Humane Society?"	他说"像那些动物保护人士吗？"
And I said, "Yes, like the Humane Society.	我说"对，像那些动物保护人士。"
I go in, I grab the scrotum, tip comes off.	我继续，我抓着阴囊，尖端掉了下了
Albert instructs, "Push it way up there."	亚伯特指导着，"把它推上去"
And I'm like, "What is this jacked-up metaphor?	我想"这是哪门子乱七八糟的隐喻？
I don't like what I'm thinking right now."	我讨厌我现在这些想法。"
I took them like this, and I yanked my face back.	我这样拿下它们然后狠狠地把脸甩开
And I'm standing there with two testicles on my chin.	我就站在那里脸上挂着两个羊睾丸
And now I can't get -- I can't shake the metaphor.	我就是无法-我无法甩开那个隐喻
I got to tell you, it's such a great device though.	但我必须说，这真是很好的词句
When you start to look for peripetia, you find it everywhere.	但你开始找寻"转折"它们随处可见
It's crushing when the audience sees it the right way.	在那一瞬间，所有观众都看明白了
I mean, these are the people that I work with every single day.	这些人可是我每天在一起共事的人
People with dirty jobs are happier than you think.	做这些工作的人比你想象的快乐很多
They've got this amazing sort of symmetry to their life.	他们的人生中有一种不可思议的平衡
And I see it over and over and over again.	这是我一次又一次亲眼所见的
You know, follow your dreams and go broke, right?	追求梦想然后破产，对吧？
I mean, that's all I heard growing up.	这些都是我们如雷贯耳的话
And I hear that story over and over.	这就是我一直反复听见的故事。
And he says, "OSHA? Ocean."	他回答"职业安全？看看海底！"
It can't be repeated on any factory floor or any construction site.	也不能在任何工厂或工地重复
My responsibility is not to get you home alive.	我的职责不是让你活着回家
We turn them into heroes, or we turn them into punch lines.	我们塑造偶像，或是呼喊口号
But, we've waged this war on Madison Avenue.	我们在麦迪逊大街也拉上了战线
I just know that that's a front in this war.	我只知道这个战争有个前线
How many people have their Blackberries?	多少人带着他们的黑莓机？
Good grief, not to this crowd.	要命，至少不是跟这群观众
Our tools today don't look like shovels and picks.	我们的工具不再是镐和铲子
Barack wants to create two and a half million jobs.	欧巴马要创造两百五十万个工作机会
It lists every known mental disorder.	它列举了所有已知的精神疾病
And it lists currently 374 mental disorders.	目前手册列举了374种精神疾病
I'm kidding. I'm not kidding.	我开玩笑的，我还真没开玩笑
They're called the CCHR.	他们被称为公民人权委员会
Now Broadmoor is Broadmoor Hospital.	布罗德莫，就是布罗德莫精神病院
It looks like a giant Hampton Inn.	它看起来就像大型的汉普顿酒店
It's all peach and pine and calming colors.	到处都是桃子菠萝和让人宁静的颜色
And I said, "Where'd you get that from?"	我说，"你这是从哪学来的？"
And they didn't send him to some cushy hospital.	结果他们没把他送到某间舒适的医院
I'm not mentally ill."	我并没有任何精神疾病。"
How do you cross your legs in a sane way?	你又如何用正常人的方式翘脚的？
Am I crossing my legs like a journalist?"	我翘脚翘得像个记者吗？"
And they take that as a sign of madness.	但他们将此当作发疯的征兆
They say it proves that I'm aloof and grandiose."	他们说这表明我冷漠并浮夸。"
I said, "What's the story?"	我问，"这里面有什么故事吗？"
However, we have assessed him.	但是，我们对他进行了测试
It could be carnage by the end of the night.	可能在今晚结束的时候会有大屠杀
He was saying this in a less effeminate way.	他说这话的语气还挺霸气的
And he'd quite often fire people with a joke.	他经常会用开玩笑的口吻炒别人鱿鱼
And I said, "Manipulative."	我又接着，"控制欲强。"
He said, "That's leadership."	他说，"这叫领导能力。"
Because I was desperate to shove him in a box marked psychopath.	因为我拼命想证明他是神经病患者
I was desperate to define him by his maddest edges.	我拼命想用他最疯狂的举动来判定
And we stitch them together like medieval monks.	我们像中世纪僧侣将他们联系起来
And we leave the normal stuff on the floor.	却把那些正常的方面抛掷脑外
He said, "Why haven't you been returning my calls?"	他说，"你为什么还没给我回电？"
He said, "I've got a tribunal coming up.	他说，"我接下来有个裁决
Everyone's a bit psychopathic."	每个人多少都有精神病。"
I said, "What are you going to do now?"	我说，"那你现在准备干什么呢？"
And you know what, I think it's right that Tony is out.	知道吗，我觉得Tony出来是对的
And what Tony is, is he's a semi-psychopath.	那Tony算什么呢，算半个疯子吧
I just want to thank you for everything you've done for me."	我想谢谢你为我所做的一切。"
And I didn't go. What would you have done?	但我没去。换做你，你会去吗？
Well, it's a technology for, first, salvation in its most basic sense.	首先，救赎是它的最基本概念。
And the same problem with respect to Islam.	伊斯兰教也遇到同样的问题。
Now, it follows from that, that they're deeply contestable.	因此，它们是非常具有争议性的。
They're ideas about which people disagree in the deepest possible sense.	它们是人们在最深层次上的分歧。
And ostensibly, the same is true of democracy.	表面上看，民主也是一样。
Some people say that democracy consists basically in elections.	有些人认为民主就是各种选举。
They weren't even allowed to form a party.	但是他们甚至不能得到许可。
That's not the way human circumstances operate.	这不是人类环境运行的规律。
Now at the time, I was working down the street.	那个时候，我在陆地下面工作
In fact, many people compared it to a war zone.	事实上，很多人把它比作战区现场。
And there really were no good solutions.	当时我们真有点黔驴技穷的感觉。
So it had been a huge gamble, but it had paid off.	那确实是很大一博，但他们赌赢了。
But an interesting thing was noted during the training process.	在训练过程中有一件趣事值得一提。
So what happened to those 20,000 oiled penguins?	那么那两万只企鹅究竟怎样了呢？
And was Silvia Gaus right?	希尔维亚•高斯的理论是否正确呢？
We've even invented a new form of tourism.	我们甚至兴起了另一种形式的旅游
This is about sharing and investing in kindness.	这是关于分享和善意的投资
And then there's the second plate, the learning plate.	到这里就是第二个板块学习板块
So we did some really simple things.	于是我们做了些简单的事情
Really popular. People congregated around it.	相当受欢迎人们围着黑板聚集到一起
This isn't a second class exercise.	这并不是一个二等的课堂训练
I thought that was it.	我当时想，那就是终点了。
And I certainly didn't even want to be a writer, particularly.	尤其是我甚至连作家都不想当。
It is compassion, says the Buddha, which brings you to Nirvana.	佛教中说是仁爱之心带你走向涅槃。
And this is absolutely crucial to the monotheisms, too.	这对一神论者来说也是至关重要的。
And "go and study it" was what he meant.	"你自己去研究"的确是他说的。
We have a talent as a species for messing up wonderful things.	我们人类有着破坏美好事物的天赋。
The causes of our present woes are political.	这些纷争都是政治所引起的。
That is the ethos found, too, in all the religions.	这种精神存在于所有的宗教信仰中。
So sand is about a tenth of a millimeter in size.	一粒沙差不多是十分一毫米
But when you look closer at this, look at what's there.	但当你靠近细看时，看看观察的结果
It's really quite amazing. You have microshells there.	是很迷人的你看到的是微小的贝壳
You have fragments of other shells. You have olivine.	还有其他贝类的碎片有橄榄石
An amazing array of incredible things exist in sand.	沙里面藏着许多引人入胜的东西
So here's, for example, a picture of sand from Maui.	比方说这就是一幅毛伊岛上沙的图片
Every grain of sand is coming somewhere and going somewhere.	每一粒沙子都有自己的过去和未来
I thought it looked kind of a little bit like the Moon, which is sort of interesting.	我觉得它看上去就像月球所以很妙
It's about science, it's about rationalism.	是个关于科学，理性的节目
We know this because they did an experiment."	我们这么说因为他们做过一个实验"
You bring in science, and it ruins the magic."	你们带来了科学，却摧毁了幻想"
But I also don't understand how it does ruin the magic.	但是我还不明白这怎么就毁了幻想了
Science actually says we will live forever.	科学实际上也认为我们将会永生
We won't actually live forever. You won't live forever.	我们事实上不会永生，你不会永生
Now in many ways, that's just a survival thing.	在很多不同方面，那只是个生存问题
But we don't notice that bit; we just unconditionally love.	我们忽略了一点；我们是无条件的爱
Every time I breathe in, I'm breathing in a million-billion-billion atoms of oxygen.	我每一次呼吸我无数次的吸进氧原子
That, to me, is an incredible thing.	那对我来说是不可思议的事情
Now for some people, that seems to lead to an idea of nihilism.	如今有些人将此理解为虚无主义
I'm glad the universe is pointless.	我很乐于认为宇宙是无意义的
"What are you going to teach me about right and wrong?	"你要教我什么是是非？"
I know what is wrong. I have done wrong.	我知道什么是错的。我做过错事。
Then can you tell me what wrong is?	那你能告诉我什么是错的？
Maybe one of us is wrong about the wrong.	也许我们之一对错的理解是错的
Our enemy is thoughtlessness. This is philosophy."	我们的敌人是不思考这是哲学。"
"Could be I'm wrong. I'm tired of being wrong.	"也许是我错了。我不想错下去了。
What can creatures like us know of such things?	人类生命能对此认知多少？
Socrates died in prison, his philosophy intact.	他死于狱中但他的哲学长存于世
And as a result of that, I grew up with books everywhere around the house.	因此，我小时候家里全是书。
I was a South Indian brought up in Bengal.	我来自印度南部在孟加拉长大。
And apparently it's being remade right now and it's going to be coming out next year.	现在这部电影正在被重拍明年上映。
What changed was the balance of the tissues available.	不同的是体内各种组织的平衡。
So there was always going to be a tension within that.	因此两者的关系总是有点紧张。
They'd buy it from the shop as raw ingredients.	我们可以在商店里购买原材料。
We start labeling information for the fact percentage?	用事实比例来标记不同的信息？
Which brings me to the final element of this.	这也是我最后想探讨的一个问题。
Fundamentally it's a consumption issue.	从根本上说，这是一个摄入的问题。
Would there be time to be able to work with it?	他会有时间消化这些信息吗？
I can tell you it's a magnificent spread.	可以说，那真是气势恢宏。
But does it just happen over there?	但腐败仅仅只发生在那边吗？
And it was a slightly crazy place.	那是一个相当疯狂的地方。
Okay, maybe it's a bit of a cliché to talk about them.	好吧，也许这有点老生常谈。
Corruption in that sector, no surprise.	在这些产业发生贪腐一点都不奇怪。
It's just how some business is done.	他们认为这就是做生意的一种方式。
You must fight anyone who encroaches upon it.	你必须和入侵你地盘的人斗争
You become your nation. You become your religion.	你的国家，你的宗教定义了你
Ideas get shorter. They become sound bytes.	想法变得简短，化成简单的字节
I want to talk about a few of these people that I've met.	我想说说我遇到的一些这样的人
For eight years, she walked through the Rift Valley.	八年来，她步行穿越东非裂谷
I do not use them as weapons.	我不把价值观和信仰用做武器
And how are you doing? Are you exhausted?	你怎么样？有没有觉得累坏了？
Soon, it had occurred to me what my job was.	很快我就知道我的工作是什么了
The stories can be anything, and some of them are actually true.	故事五花八门有一些是真有其事
Pure content and pure form, side by side.	单纯的内容和单纯的形式，肩并肩
And even back then, Michael was on the cutting edge.	即使在当时迈克尔说话也挺潮的
This is going to be the opposite of that.	我这个方法其实就是反着来
Now, that's a good printing job.	印刷厂的伙计们干的还真不赖嘛
All those years, all those books, he never got tired of it.	从始至终一本不拉他从未厌倦过
And the last story I'm going to talk about is quite a story.	最后我要讲的是一个很有意思的故事
This is unheard of, both for us the publisher, and the author.	这对于出版社和作者都是前所未闻的
What does it look like?	这故事到底看起来怎么样?
I think that adults should start learning from kids.	我认为大人应该开始向小孩学习。
The students should teach their teachers.	学生亦应教育他们的老师。
Learning between grown ups and kids should be reciprocal.	成人和儿童之间应该互相学习。
True story, by the way.	顺便提一下，这是个真实的例子。
Kids need opportunities to lead and succeed.	小孩需要机会去领导和取得成功。
The soundscape is made up of three basic sources.	音景由三个基本源头组成。
They were just there, but they had no significance.	它们只是存在着，但谈不上重要。
And here's Lincoln Meadow before selective logging.	接下来是伐木以前的林肯草甸声音
Whether or not we understand it is a different story.	我们能否理解则是另外一回事。
And they vocalize in a chorus that's absolutely in sync with one another.	它们齐声高歌，而且彼此同步一致
My mother wanted me to be a dentist.	我妈希望我成为一个牙科医生
And this was a pretty common sight.	这张照片上就是当时常见的景象
The school I went to was pretty boring.	我上学的那个学校特别无聊
So this was extremely embarrassing.	那个时候我觉得特别特别尴尬
So I brought a picture with big hair.	根据要求我带来了这张照片
I just want to get that out of the way.	我就是想赶快先完成这个要求
And -- you see the picture at the bottom?	大家看到底下的那张照片了吗？
There's a picture of a guy doing homework with his son.	照片上是一个人在陪他的儿子做作业
That's what they thought they had built it for.	这是厂商原来推出这台计算机的目的
The graphics were just horrible.	那个时候的图形画面非常差
But of course the scientists couldn't help themselves.	当然，科学家们可忍不住了
That was much better.	这个比英版的那个好多了。
Last year was the biggest year.	去年是游戏产业最繁盛的一年。
Of course the newspapers love to beat on this.	当然所有的新闻媒体都爱这样说。
This market is now estimated at over 800 million dollars annually.	这个市场现在估计是每年8亿美元
That's what the show looks like.	这是一张当时演唱会的照片
And the people that went there absolutely loved it.	观众对那场演出都十分满意
But what I want you to do is to try to understand it.	但是希望大家可以试着理解
So we're going to start that video.	现在我们就来看一下这段视频
You need to be really an incredible artist.	你得是一个非常有才华的艺术家
And these are the kind of topics we really actually care about.	这才是我们真正关系的话题
I'm a video game addict and this is my story.	我是一个游戏爱好者，这是我的故事
I am just one of a new generation that is growing up.	我只是成长中的新一代中的一员
These are all troubles outside of myself.	这些都是跟我没什么关系的问题
I, however, have a problem very close to home.	可是我，有一个跟我很有关的问题
For my virtual worlds are perfect.	因为我的虚拟世界是完美的
There is a potential to do good as well.	电子游戏可以作为一个很好的工具
Part of me is just waiting to let go.	我心里有个声音一直在让我放手
That means there's literally thousands of new ideas.	这就意味着有成千上万的新想法
Go ahead. I'm going to stay right here though.	讲吧,不过我就在这儿站着
I just hope she likes video games.	我就是希望她会喜欢玩游戏
We go to magic shows in order to be fooled.	我们去看魔术表演也是同样道理
They measure very, very carefully.	他们会测量得非常非常仔细
We can think of ourselves as kind of a noisy channel.	我们可以把自己当成是一种噪声信道
I'll talk about that a little bit.	我今天要谈的就是这个问题
But then I had a thought of, "Boy, maybe it's too simple."	可是转念一想似乎也做得太简单了
So what if I click this down to zero?	要是我把这一数值降到零呢
We're going to move the car according to that over and over again.	我们将按照那个规则来驱动车子前进
Now, what if we want to look at this more closely?	要是我们想看得更深入一层呢？
And they say, "Oh, yeah. Constant acceleration.	他们就会惊呼哦不就是恒定变速吗?
And how shall we look and verify that we actually have it?	那么我们如何验证这一假设呢
I think that Shakespeare really put it very nicely.	我认为莎士比亚说得很好，
And I'm actually going to use his words in the same order that he did.	所以我就原封不动的引用一下。
And thereby hangs a tale."	我们的故事就在这每时每刻之间。
And we need to think about planning a little bit.	所以我们需要一点点规划。
And we're still picking up pieces of the Challenger.	我们至今还在收拾挑战者号的残骸
And I just want to say that that is absolutely not going to be the case.	我想说的是，这种事情不会发生。
It's going to change the way we have children.	这将会改变我们生孩子的方式。
It's going to probably change the human lifespan.	很有可能还会改变人类寿命。
It's not at all clear where it's going to take us.	这种改变的结果还不清晰。
That's going to have amazing impacts.	这种变化的影响是巨大的。
The approval process is going to fall apart, actually.	药品的批准过程将会瓦解。
The second is modifying our emotions.	第二点是修饰我们的情感。
There are three obvious ways of doing this.	为实现这一点，有三条明显的道路。
It will happen in five to 10 years.	克隆将在未来5到10年内发生。
And when it does it's not going to be that big a deal.	到那时，并不会成为什么大事情。
They'll want the new release.	他们想要的是新的染色体。
They are really going to come to operate in this realm.	人们真的会在这个领域展开行动。
Humanity is going to go down this path.	人类会沿着这条道路走下去。
That's really the central one, I believe.	我相信这才是事情的关键。
It's going to drive these things from view.	这些事情将躲到视线之外。
And I think it's wonderful that we do.	我为我们正在进行的讨论感到高兴。
This is the flowering of human endeavor."	简直是人类成就中的奇葩。"
And that's where about half of our drugs come.	而这是大约半数药品的来源。
It is something that is a unique instant in the history of all of life.	这是所有生命中独一无二的瞬间。
And then they become tadpoles and frogs."	然后就变成了蝌蚪和青蛙。"
And she goes, "And what's this fertilizing?"	她问，"那么什么是受精？"
And she said, "Oh, so is that true for humans too?"	她又问，"哦，人类也是这样吗？"
Don't give any more information."	不要提供任何额外的信息。"
We have evolved to have our own pond.	我们已经进化到了有自己的池塘，
We have our very own pond inside our bodies.	我们的身体里有属于自己的池塘。
Like, where you go to the bathroom?"	就是我们上厕所时用的的地方？"
That's how we evolved. It does seem odd.	但这就是我们的进化，是有点奇怪，
So how could that ever happen?"	那么这怎么可能发生呢？"
Like, how do they know that's the time?	就好比，他们怎么知道是时候了呢？
And I go, "I know, but the legs ..."	我说，"我知道，但这腿……"
and I'm probably like, "The legs get worked out."	腿的问题自己会解决啦。"
And she goes, "But I just can't understand it."	她纠缠不放，"但是我想不通。"
So we go online, and we put in "cats mating."	于是我们上网，搜索猫的交配。
You can see, it's quite a complex structure.	你可以看到，它是相当复杂的结构。
Once you've made it, the installation's quite easy.	一旦你做好它，安装很容易。
So the surgical implantation actually was the easiest part.	所以外科植入其实是最容易的部分。
No breaking into your circulatory system.	你的血液循环系统也不需要被打断。
Well the answer to that is a multidisciplinary team.	答案就是一个跨领域的团队。
There are some barriers to this though. There are some problems with it.	尽管这样还有一些困难和问题存在。
The medics amongst you, if there are any, will recognize the first two.	你们当中的医生可能认识前两个。
Our disciplinary conventions were funny as well.	我们行业习惯的不同也非常的有趣。
So the horizontal images were all an inversion.	所以那些水平图像都反转了。
So one needs to be careful with disciplinary conventions.	所以每个人都需要注意行业的习惯。
I'm sure it's the same in Poland.	我确信在波兰也是这样的。
You'll have an equivalent in Poland, no doubt.	毫无疑问，波兰也有相似的机构。
They simply want to do whatever they've done before.	他们只是想做他们之前做过的。
And in fact, there are many surgeons in the U.K.	事实上，有很多外科医生在英国
The middle point is simply the way that the doctors protect themselves.	这仅仅是医生们保护自己的方法。
Him giving me respect? Slightly different.	淡他给我尊重呢？这就稍有不同了。
The good news is the benefits are stonkingly huge.	好消息便是它的益处非常的大。
Translate that one. I bet they can't.	翻译这个。我敢打赌他们不能。
That's all I want to say, and I've got three minutes left.	这就是我想说的，我还剩三分钟。
It would be a pleasure to speak with you. Many thanks.	能和你们交流时我荣幸。非常感谢！
And I really hated the mosquitos for that.	因为这个，我特别痛恨蚊子。
We're certainly not supposed to swat mosquitos.	当然，我们也不能打蚊子。
The first reason is certainly scientific.	第一个原因是科学相关的。
It might do nothing at all to any of the other stages.	但对其他生命阶段可能完全无效。
If you're poor, you're more likely to get malaria.	如果你很穷，你更有可能患上疟疾。
These are places where mosquitos breed.	也正是是滋生蚊子的好地方。
You're less likely to have door screens or window screens.	你不太可能有门或窗户的屏障。
So this has happened historically.	所以，过去我们已经有能力
And that was certainly my personal experience.	那的确也是我的亲身经历。
And it's simple risk perception, really.	它真是一个简单的风险认知。
This is a huge cultural challenge in taming this disease.	这的的确确是一个巨大的文化挑战。
So take all that together.	所以把这些因素都凑在一起，
And the answer is, historically, you don't.	答案是，从历史上看，不能。
It was the brainchild of the U.S. State Department.	耗费了美国国务院不少心血，
They understood the cultural challenge.	他们也理解了文化面临的挑战。
They are doing tons of malaria research.	他们做了无数的疟疾研究。
And they understand the economic challenge too.	他们也很了解经济面临的挑战，
They're focusing on very cheap, very easy-to-use tools.	主要集中在便宜、易用的工具上。
But now, I think, the dilemma is the cultural challenge.	但是却遇上了文化方面的困境。
The centerpiece of the current effort is the bed net.	目前主要的努力是利用蚊帐，
They have to sleep under them every night.	每晚都必须睡在蚊帐当中，
So for them, the calculus must be quite different.	他们有着完全不同的逻辑。
But that's not an insurmountable problem.	但这不是一个不能克服的问题。
And that's what happening now.	而我们现在就正在这么做。
I don't know if you've heard about it -- newspapers?	我不知道你们是否听说过——报纸？
It's a sort of paper-based reader.	它是一种以纸为媒介的读物
But this is no news, right?	但这不是什么新闻了，是吗？
Ladies and gentlemen, the world has gotten smaller.	女士们，先生们世界已变得越来越小
This is because of technology -- yeah.	罪魁祸首是科学技术，是的
Any computer designers in the room?	在这个房间里有电脑设计师吗？
There's nothing I can do as a cartoonist.	作为一个漫画家我无计可施
Well, I know the world is flat now.	好，我知道世界现在是平的了
Every village in Africa now has a cyber cafe.	现在非洲的每一个村庄都有公共网吧
The Third World is connected, we are connected.	连接起第三世界连接起我们所有人
This is your life, enjoy it.	这就是你的生活尽情享受吧
They are shaping the way we consume.	他们正塑造着我们的消费方式
They are shaping our very desires.	他们正塑造着我们的特殊愿望
This was so sickening; people died because of cartoons.	这是如此令人厌恶人们因漫画而殒命
This is not how it works."	漫画不是这样创作出来的。"
We know that cartoons can be used as weapons.	我们知道，漫画可以被用作武器
This looks like a giant hamburger.	这看上去像一只巨大的汉堡包
You don't want to be the ham in the middle.	你不想成为夹在其中的火腿吧
I was there to report on that story in cartoons.	我在那儿报道那个事件用漫画的形式
This is the future of journalism, I think.	我认为这是新闻工作的未来
And of course, I went to see the rebels in the north.	当然，我去见了北部的叛军
Those were poor guys fighting for their rights.	那是些为争取自己权利而战的穷小子
People fear them -- they help the rebellion a lot.	人们惧怕他们他们经常帮助叛军
They are believed to have magical powers.	人们相信他们有神奇的力量
And what can a cartoonist do?	一个漫画家可以有何作为？
And I'm very proud of what they did.	而且我对他们所作所为感到非常骄傲
And I didn't ask them to do nice cartoons.	而且我没有要求他们画好漫画
The first day, they were even shouting at each other.	第一天，他们甚至互相吼叫
So this was a great project.	所以这是一个了不起的项目
And that's the message I try to convey to them.	那就是我想向他们传达的信息
And leave it to Hollywood to get it just right.	就让好莱坞好好诠释它吧，
Two-and-a-half years in the making.	光制作就花了两年半时间。
SETI wants there to be stuff out there.	他们希望外星球上有东西可寻。
But there's two fates to everything, isn't there?	但凡事都有两面性，对吧？
And that's the fate of a planet, too.	一个星球的命运也同样如此。
And what they found was something unexpected.	他们的发现让人出乎意料。
These are mammal-like reptiles.	他们是类似哺乳动物的爬行动物。
This is my poor son, Patrick.	这是我可怜儿子Patrick。
This is called paleontological child abuse.	这是古生物学上的虐待儿童。
Hold still, you're the scale.	稳住了，你们可是标尺啊。
You can see the eye socket and you can see the little teeth in the front.	你能看到眼窝和前方的小牙齿。
Here's sort of the end of that 10 years of work.	这差不多是10年工作的尾声了。
Warm-blooded animals take a huge hit at this time.	恒温动物这次受到了重击。
So, if not impact, what?	那么，要是没撞击的话，会怎样呢？
They really want their world back.	它们很想重回自己的世界。
And they've tried over and over and over again.	而且也一次又一次地努力尝试。
But carbon dioxide is carbon dioxide.	但二氧化碳就是二氧化碳。
They stop complex life from existing.	它们阻止了复杂生命的存在。
This is a Great White Shark that ate some of my traps.	这是头大白鲨，它中了我的圈套。
So, I'm swimming along, and it takes off my leg.	我游着泳，它能把我腿扯掉。
He bleeds out pigs.	他拿猪做实验，把它割伤流血。
Here is a way we can get people to critical care.	这种方法，能让人进重症监护室。
We're going to save lives, but there's going to be a cost to it.	我们要拯救生命，但要付出代价。
But there's a far worse danger confronting us.	但是我们将面对一个更糟的情况。
Does it leave a signal in bone or in plant?	会在骨头或者植物上有信号吗？
This is a mine in Zimbabwe right now.	现在这个矿位于津巴布韦。
That's the politest description I have for them.	那是我得到的最官方的描述。
Some of these governance gaps are run by rogue states.	这些管理漏洞来自无赖的政府。
Some of them are not states anymore at all.	其中一些已经不再是政府了；
Now, that's not a new story.	现在这些已经不是一个新的故事了。
We don't have a regulatory system able to ensure that that production is safe.	没有监管系统去保证产品安全。
Fortunately, we have some examples.	幸运的是，我们有一些例子。
Companies didn't feel it was their responsibility.	公司并没有感到自己的责任。
You don't need to believe me. You shouldn't believe me.	你不需要信任我，也不应该信任我。
That's the way the system works.	那就是这个系统工作的模式。
I hate the idea that governments are not protecting human rights around the world.	我痛恨世界上的政府不保护人权。
There are thousands of suppliers in there."	其中包含成百上千的供应商。
Some of them are very, very large companies.	一些是非常非常大的公司。
It starts with just giving people back their dignity.	刚开始是归还他们的尊严。
Please ask them to treat us like human beings."	请告诉他们，进行常人的对待。"
That's my simple understanding of human rights.	这是我对人权的简单理解。
I know that trick; I've done it a million times.	我知道那噱头；我做过不下上万次。
You will put the star in starting over, and over.	在星辰下你得周而复始地循环。
But I want her to know that this world is made out of sugar.	但让她知道这世界是由蜜糖构成的。
Remember that good things come in threes and so do bad things.	记住好事成三儿坏事儿亦然。
Your voice is small, but don't ever stop singing.	你的声音虽小，但决不要停止歌唱。
The only rule is don't think too hard.	这仅有的规则就是不要想得特复杂。
Okay, so these are three things I know to be true.	好的，这3件事对我而说是真的。
But there are plenty of things I have trouble understanding.	但有很多事是我不理解的。
Spoken word poetry is the art of performance poetry.	口语诗是诗歌的艺术表现。
And that was thanks to a girl in a hoodie.	这要感谢那个连帽衫的女孩。
It's not just the adage "write what you know."	这不只是一句格言"写你所知的，"
But it turns out sometimes, poetry can be really scary.	但有时结局却是诗歌可真吓人。
So I came up with lists. Everyone can write lists.	我有了列表。每个人都能写列表。
And most people respond really well to this exercise.	多数人对这个练习反应良好。
"Miss," she'd say, "I'm just not interesting.	她说，"女士，我就是不感兴趣。
But I teach spoken word poetry because it's accessible.	但我传授口语诗因为它是易懂的。
Plus, spoken word poetry allows for immediate connections.	并且，口语诗会有即时互动联系。
You have to grow and explore and take risks and challenge yourself.	你得成长和探寻冒险挑战自己。
Because step three never ends.	因为第三阶段永远不会结束。
So I'd like to close with this poem.	所以我想以此诗来做结束。
I start quickly becoming part of your past.	我开始迅速成为你过去的一部分。
But in that instant, I get to share your present.	但在这一瞬间，我要分享你的现在。
And you, you get to share mine.	而你，你要分享我的所有。
And that is the greatest present of all.	这就是所有中最伟大的恩赐。
It can give credit to sound decision-making, adding momentum to success.	可以为决策加分，为成功造势。
Every story does not have to sell something.	每篇报道不一定兜售什么东西。
Children in Soweto playing on a trampoline.	在索韦托，儿童在蹦床上玩。
It exemplified the best that humanity has to offer.	它体现的是人性最好的一面。
NATO forces went in, and the Serbian army withdrew.	北约部队进去，塞尔维亚军队撤出。
The imprint of a man who had been burned inside his own home.	这是一个人在自家被焚烧后的烙印。
In the fall of 2004 I went to Darfur.	在2004年秋天我去了达尔富尔。
In the yard of a chain gang in Alabama.	在阿拉巴马州的一所院子的里。
A group of men march through the streets cutting themselves with knives.	一群人游行，用刀割自己。
The spirit they displayed was absolutely remarkable.	他们表现出的精神是绝对出色的。
Good people had been put in a very bad situation for questionable results.	好人面临非常糟糕的情况。
Without that mandate, they would be corrupt.	没有那些委任制度，就会产生腐败
We have to trust a lot of procedures.	我们须得信任一大推的程序
And sometimes we even have to trust computers.	有时候，我们甚至还得信任电脑
No hacker can break in and find out how you voted.	没有黑客可以侵入去看你投给谁
But the election magic doesn't stop there.	但，选举的魔力不会因此消失
And these are elections by the people, for the people.	这就是选举依赖人民，服务于人民
I'm going to talk about religion.	我打算谈一些关于宗教的事情
This is a very serious talk.	笑声这是一个相当严肃的谈话
This is a quiz. What do you think?	这是个问题。你们有什么看法呢
Do you think it will decrease to one billion?	你认为儿童数量会降低到10亿吗
I will tell you by the end of my speech.	在我的演讲结束时，我会告诉你答案
So we were careful with that.	我们对待宗教信仰总是小心翼翼的
And here the income per person in comparable dollars.	然后这里是用美元作参照的人均收入
So low income here, high income there.	因此，这里是低收入，这里是高收入
Otherwise it was only Christian countries.	其他的都是信仰基督教的国家
But they were in Latin America or they were in Africa.	但是他们在拉丁美洲或者非洲
It's not one of these statistics which is very doubtful.	这些数据中，没有一个是不可信的
There's no major difference between these religions.	在这两个宗教之间没有很大的区别
There is a difference with income.	但是在收入上却是有差别的
Congo will go from 60 to 120.	而刚果会从6千万增长到1亿2千万
You need to have access to some family planning.	你需要有条件进行计划生育
Very interesting. Lots to read.	非常有趣，有很多值得阅读的地方
Now look again at this.	现在，我们再来看一下这个
There are countries up here which are very poor.	比这个数高的国家都非常贫穷
The number of children is not growing any longer in the world.	这个世界上的儿童数量不会再增长了
And the world population will stop growing.	然后，世界人口的数量将会停止增长
I will use these card boxes in which your notebooks came.	我要用这些你们装笔记本的纸盒子。
They are quite useful for educational purposes.	对于教育目的而言，它们是很有用的
And then it's my box.	接着，就是代表我年纪的盒子了
The old, sadly, we will die.	那些老人，非常悲伤的，我们会死去
But first I'm going to tell you a little bit about my own journey.	首先我想讲一下我自己的历史
Our bus ride took us from San Francisco to London.	汽车把我们从旧金山带到了伦敦
The key to eradicating smallpox was early detection, early response.	消灭天花关键是早发现、早反应
But to see smallpox from the perspective of a sovereign is the wrong perspective.	但从国家的角度来看天花是错误的
Day seven, they show the classic scars of smallpox umbilication.	第七天，就看到天花成脐形
There are other kinds of smallpox that are not like that.	还有别的天花并不是像这样的
In that year, there were 34 countries affected with smallpox.	那一年，有34个国家有天花个案
By 1970, we were down to 18 countries.	1970年，这一数字降到了18个
It wouldn't do just to vaccinate everyone.	所以实现人人接种是不可能的
And in the process, I learned something very important.	在这一过程中，我学到了很重要一点
We had a scorecard that we wrote on every house.	在每家每户的得分板上都写着
We failed three other times.	我们先前的三次行动都失败了
But soon we may see polio eradicated.	但后来我们看到了小儿麻痹症被消灭
I was just in India working on the polio program.	不久前我在印度做小儿麻痹症的项目
15 percent said they thought there'd be a pandemic within three years.	有15%的人说，未来3年内会发生
And they thought that if there was a pandemic, a billion people would get sick.	假如真的出现将会有10亿人患病
You get two or three discrete locations.	逐渐在其他一两个地方也发生了感染
It's the Global Public Health Information Network.	全称是"全球公共健康信息网"
Smallpox -- early detection, early response.	对于天花，我们要早发现，早反应
Just explain. Give an example of how that could possibly be true.	你能解释一下吗？比方说举一个例子
That's how the world found out about SARS.	这就是我们发现非典病毒的故事
I've spent my life working on sustainability.	我一生的工作都与可持续发展有关。
That was in the beginning of the last century.	那是上个世纪开始的时候。
Can I pay the bills at the end of the month?	到月底我能付得起帐单吗？
It wasn't a great start.	这当然不是一个好的开始。
Today we have choices.	现在我们有了不同的选择。
They were mis-sold for more than a hundred years.	它们被误卖了一百多年呀。
We will go all in.	我们将全力以赴来做这件事。
It's not just about products in people's homes.	它不仅仅是顾客们家里的一个产品。
We've got to think about the raw materials that produce our products.	我们得想想产品的原材料。
Yields increase, and you halve the input costs.	产量提高，同时你的投入可以减半。
Again, we're going all-in.	这一次，我们还是全力以赴。
Use your supply chain to drive good.	用你的供应链做有益的事，
But then it comes to your operations.	这样做，对你的生意也有益。
Some things are certain, I think.	我觉得有些事情就是这样明确的。
But think of a solar panel.	我们来想想太阳能电池板。
Every time the sun comes out after that, the electricity is free.	每次太阳一出来，电就是免费的。
You've got to say that's not enough today.	应该说我们现在做得还不够。
It's still nice to do, but it's a must-do.	这是件好事，但是它也必须要做。
Search out the companies that are acting on this.	搜索出那些关心可持续发展的公司。
I mentioned renewable energy.	我刚才提到过可再生能源。
So, looking for answers, I went to Catholic mass.	为了寻找答案，我做过天主教弥撒；
They've made me a proud I-don't-know-it-all.	它们让我勇于承认自己的无知。
She's concerned about what's happening in this world right now.	她现在关心这世上发生的事。
This," he wrote, "is the interrelated structure of reality."	这就是真理之间相互关联的结构。"
Be curious; be conversational; be real.	要保有好奇，要有真诚的交流，
From there, we dove in.	达成一致后，我们用下面几个问题
Neither of us had tried to change the other.	我们谁也不试图去改变对方。
I found this photography of mine almost compulsive.	但我发现我几乎是情不自禁的想拍照
But the question is, does forgiveness and redemption replace justice?	但问题是宽恕和补救能否取代正义？
And yes, all of those people killed were male.	是的，所有被杀的人都是男性
And that's the power of storytelling.	这就是故事叙述所蕴含的力量
How do people release the documents?	你们是怎样公开这些文件的？
And how do you secure their privacy?	你们如何确保他们的隐私？
If we can have this document up ...	现在我们可以公布这个文件
So this was a story in Kenya a few years ago.	这是几年前发生在肯尼亚的故事
This is -- this is intense material, I should warn you.	这是段很激烈的视频，我先提醒大家
Hotel ... Bushmaster Two-Six, Bushmaster Two-Six, we need to move, time now!	HB26，HB26转移，现在！
Yeah, we see two birds [helicopters], and we're still firing.	我看到两个逃跑的，别熄火
Oops, I'm sorry. What was going on?	糟糕，抱歉，刚才是怎么回事？
I mean, in general, what's your philosophy?	概括来讲，你的人生哲学是什么？
What would you say to that?	你对这样的父母怎么解释？
So it's not going to change their opinion. It's not going to change their perception.	所以这并不能改变他们的意见和想法
We have to try better. Let's show them another example.	我们再来试一试。再给大家一个例子
We don't know, but what can we do?	我们并不知道真相，也无计可施
You know, I was a very young journalist activist at an early age.	我是个非常年轻的记者和激进分子
So you have to be careful with hacker.	所以对黑客这个行为要非常谨慎
So this phrase is not, not as nice as it used to be.	所以现阶段情况并不如以前的好
Instead, they publicized your side.	而他们却引起了公众对你的注意
That made you very high-profile in Iceland. What happened next?	这使得你在冰岛非常高调。然后呢？
Iceland went through this financial crisis.	冰岛度过了这次的金融危机
It was the hardest hit of any country in the world.	遭受到了比任何国家都更严重的打击
Which way is it going to go? It's hard to see.	到底会以何种方式进行？这很难说
I find weather extremely fascinating.	我发现气候是非常令人惊叹的东西
All of my work begins very simple.	我所有的工作开始都很简单
And from all of these numbers, I start with only two or three variables.	在这些数字里我从两三个变量开始
I also translate weather data into musical scores.	我也把气象数据翻译成乐谱
So all of these scores are made up of weather data.	这些乐谱都是用气象数据写成的
I use these scores to collaborate with musicians.	我用这些乐谱和音乐家门编曲
You place it in a music hall, it all of a sudden becomes a musical score.	放在音乐厅它又成了一份乐谱
So for me, that was my way into it.	因为对我来说，这是我的方式
However, grilled chicken poses a hidden danger.	但是，烤鸡存在一个潜在的危险
Studies show that antioxidants are known to decrease these heterocyclic amines.	研究显示抗氧化剂能减少这些杂胺环
These here are five different organizations that classify carcinogens.	这是五个不同的组织对致癌物的分类
And I was led to it through a series of events.	是一系列的事件将我引导至此的。
Sounds ridiculous, right.	这挺起来很不可思议，是吧
Got rejected by all except one.	除了一位，其它的全都拒绝了我
But my work wasn't just about the research.	但是，我的工作并不仅仅是研究
I'm going to show it to you on my laptop.	我将用我的笔记本电脑向大家展示
And this can be used by anyone.	这个模型可以用在任何人身上
I've also entered in her age, her gender and her height.	我也输入了她的年龄，性别和身高
This is the measurement that she took in her doctor's office.	这个是她在医生那里的测量值
Can I have Shree and Lauren come up really quickly?	请允许我邀请斯里和劳伦一起上台来
Your Google Science Fair champions.	你们是谷歌全球科学展的胜利者
"No, no, no! Should be a frog!"	"不对，不对！应该是青蛙！"
Somebody that might even be super-abled.	一个很有可能有超人能力的人
And also these very life-like, intrinsically painted silicone legs.	这些栩栩如生的喷漆硅胶义肢
Well, lucky for me, a lot of people answered that call.	幸运的是，很多人做出了响应
This started an incredible journey.	接下来我开始了一场奇妙的旅程
And people would come up to me after the conference, after my talk, men and women.	人们在演讲后找到我不论男女
What does a beautiful woman have to look like?	一个美丽的女人应该长什么样？
And I told her, "I'm going to Scotland the next day."	我对她说"我明天就要去苏格兰"
After seven rounds of competition, I was the last one to survive it.	七轮选拔过后我是唯一留下来的选手
I've interviewed more than a thousand people in the past.	过去这些年，我面试了一千多人
And she claimed to be the general manager of Red Cross at the Chamber of Commerce.	同时她自称中国红十字会商业总经理
But anyway, the public still doesn't buy it.	但不管怎样，公众还是不买帐
The illiteracy rate in China among this generation is under one percent.	中国这一代人中的文盲率不到1%
So making a living is not that easy for young people.	所以年轻人要过生活并不容易
Among the 200 million migrant workers, 60 percent of them are young people.	在两亿的外来务工者中六成是年轻人
But they died because of all different personal reasons.	他们的动机却是各种不同的个人原因
Social justice and government accountability runs the first in what they demand.	社会正义和政府问责制名列前茅
And guess what, we have faked beef.	你知道吗，我们制造假牛肉
And also, people are doing good through social media.	同时，人们在通过社交媒体做着好事
People were donating money, dog food and offering volunteer work to stop that truck.	人们捐钱，狗粮自愿去拦截这辆车
And here also people are helping to find missing children.	同时人们还在帮助寻找丢失的孩子
A father posted his son's picture onto the Internet.	一位父亲把丢失孩子的照片放在网上
I guess these are the questions people are going to answer.	我觉得人民会给出这些问题以答案
Images of grizzly bears are pretty familiar.	灰熊的影像是我们相当熟悉的
And the only way to film that is a shoot from the air.	对此唯一的拍摄方式就是航拍
But getting down can be a challenge for small cubs.	但对幼熊来说，下坡可不是一件易事
And we hung around with a helicopter for two whole weeks.	在直升机上绕了整整两个星期
And eventually we got lucky.	最后我们终于得到幸运女神的眷顾
The cloud lifted, the wind was still, and even the bear showed up.	万里碧空，风和日丽灰熊们也出动了
It depends solely on the bat.	答案就是那种新发现的蝙蝠
A pool of delicious nectar lies at the bottom of each flower's long flute.	美味的花蜜全在花的长茎底部
And the truth is I just don't have one.	事实是我真的没有一个确切的答案
But some locations draw you back time and time again.	但确实有些地方令你流连忘返
But at 15,000 feet, it's tough.	但它在4500米的高处，非常辛苦
And that pounding head just feels like a constant hangover.	严重的头痛就像持续不断的宿醉
Thank you for letting me share that with you.	感谢你们，让我有机会分享这一切
Sousa was not a fan of the talking machines.	苏萨可不是说话机器爱好者。
We will not have a vocal chord left," Sousa said.	我们全部都会失去声带，"苏萨说。
Now, ASCAP said they didn't care.	当时ASCAP说没什么大不了的
Okay. Three stories. Here's the argument.	三个故事讲完，现在是论点
I mean the culture that your kids are producing all the time.	就是你们的孩子整天都在创造的文化
Now, the importance of this is not the technique that you've seen here.	这里重要的不是你所看到的制作技巧
It is a literacy for this generation. This is how our kids speak.	是这一代人的语言，不会等同文盲
You're a trespasser with about as much sense as these people were trespassers.	你和这些家伙一样都是违法侵入者
So, we need something different, we need a different kind of solution.	所以我们要的是一种不同的解决方案
We watched TV; they make TV.	我们看电视，他们制作电视
That realization is extraordinarily corrosive, extraordinarily corrupting.	这种想法一传十十传百危害特别大
And we're just beginning to understand this stuff.	而我们目前对它的研究才刚起步
And we're finding amoebas like this. This is the amoeba dubia.	我们发现了变形虫，这是放射变形虫
So, it's about the size of a little period on a sentence.	大概有一个句子里的句号那么大
And it's all coming out of things that look like this.	就是靠这些设备帮助我们找到答案
Huge gene sequencing facilities the size of football fields.	庞大的基因测序设施足可媲美足球场
It takes about 5 billion dollars to sequence a human being the first time.	第一次个人基因测序需要50亿美元
And it will be really boring. It will read like this.	但是这东西很枯燥，就是这个样子
The really neat thing about this stuff is that's life.	这东西最大的价值在于组成了生命
And Laurie's going to talk about this one a little bit.	劳里待会儿会说点这方面的东西
Now, women look at that sentence and they say, uh-uh, wrong.	而女人看到这个句子，呃，不对
That's what your genes are doing.	这种区别都是由基因决定的
Mice and men are the same. Wives know that, but anyway.	两者都有3万个基因，但妻子知道
These little chippies, these things are the size of a credit card.	这个芯片，大概是信用卡大小
Changes the way medicine works.	改变药物作用的方式和作用位点
This is on a log scale, and that's what superexponential growth means.	这个是对数标尺，表示指数增长
And you can break it out by counties, because it's specific counties.	你可以通过观察各个县得出结论
So, you want to know where life is happening?	你想知道生命研究的起始点吗？
What's the net effect of this?	那么这个的净效应又是什么
Because it really matters who speaks life.	把注意力转向研究生命是非常重要的
That's why nations rise and fall.	这是国家兴盛或衰落的原因
Here's differential productivity rates.	这里显示的是不同国家的生产率差别
Well, watch what happens to India.	让我们看看印度又是怎么回事
They didn't foment the businesses. They didn't do the IPOs.	不刺激商业发展，不做上市
And the song began to move on I understand like this.	我知到这首歌一直在被人传唱。
Your eyebrow twitched. You flared your nostril.	你的眉毛动了。你的鼻孔动了。
But there are times when we are unwilling participants in deception.	而有时候我们不愿意参与说谎
And that can have dramatic costs for us.	而这时我们可能会遭受重大损失
That's an eyelash under a trillion dollars.	这个数字差一点就到一万亿美元了
Deception can cost billions.	欺诈可以造成数十亿美元的损失
Now granted, many of those are white lies.	的确这其中有许多是善意的谎言
We can't believe how prevalent lying is.	我们不敢相信人们说谎竟如此频繁
Women lie more to protect other people.	女性说谎往往是为了保护他人
That's truth number two about lying.	这是关于说谎的第二条真相
It's part of our culture, it's part of our history.	是我们文化和历史的一部分
Think Dante, Shakespeare, the Bible, News of the World.	想想看但丁莎士比亚圣经世界新闻报
Koko was taught to communicate via sign language.	可可学会如何用手语进行交流
It's her cute little, fluffy pet kitten.	这就是她毛茸茸的可爱小猫咪
Five-year-olds lie outright.	五岁的孩子撒谎都可以不打草稿了
Nine-year-olds, masters of the cover up.	九岁的孩子是掩盖真相的高手
It's been very confusing for a long time now.	长时间以来这一直在混淆视听
Why is it so easy to learn?	为什么人能轻易学会识破谎言呢
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you two patterns of deception.	我下面向你们展示两种欺骗的模式
And I need to go back to work for the American people.	我必须回去为美国人民工作了
Well first we heard what's known as a non-contracted denial.	首先我们听到一个正式的否定形式
And we all do it no matter how powerful you are.	我们都是这样不管你有多厉害
You've really got to just throw your assumptions out the door.	把之前的假设统统抛到脑后
Because we think liars fidget all the time.	我们以为骗子总是坐立不安
We think liars won't look you in the eyes.	我们以为骗子不敢直视你的双眼
We think warmth and smiles convey honesty, sincerity.	我们以为寒暄和微笑传达的是真诚
You can consciously contract the muscles in your cheeks.	你可以下意识地收紧面部的肌肉
They're going to be willing and helpful to getting you to the truth.	他们会乐意帮助你找出真相
And then they're going to tell their story in strict chronological order.	他们接着会严格按照时间顺序陈述
Now that smile is known in the trade as "duping delight."	这种微笑被称为"欺骗的喜悦"
We're going to see him talk about getting a paternity test.	我们将看到他谈论进行亲子鉴定的事
Happy to take a paternity test, and would love to see it happen.	我乐意进行亲子鉴定也很想知道结果
Murderers are known to leak sadness.	谋杀者通常会漏出伤感之色
But when anger turns to contempt, you've been dismissed.	但是愤怒一旦变成轻蔑你就输了
And for that reason, it's very, very hard to recover from.	正因如此人们才很难改正这个行为
It's the only asymmetrical expression.	这是唯一一个不对称的表情
They don't mean anything in and of themselves.	这些动作本身没有任何意义
Don't be too aggressive, it doesn't work.	不要太咄咄逼人这是行不通的
Now the technology around what the truth looks like is progressing on, the science of it.	现在的测谎技术正在日新月异地发展
Liespotters rely on human tools.	识谎者依赖的是人性的工具
And what's kind of interesting is that today we have so little darkness.	有意思的是如今我们的黑暗太少了
It's been an incredible few days.	这真是令人难以置信的日子。
I guess there goes my green card.	我猜这么说完我的绿卡算是泡汤了。
There's been a lot of talk about narrative in Africa.	关于非洲的叙事作品有很多。
It's amazing, isn't it?	这话写得很绝，难道不是吗？
I live there.	它——我们——我曾生活于此。
It comes from the novels, the movies, the fashion magazines.	它来自小说，电影，时尚杂志。
But what if they were poems and psalms?	"但是，它们要是诗篇和圣歌呢？"
And language can't be understood in its abstraction.	而且语言不能在抽象中被理解。
But these are not new to Africa.	但这些对于非洲并不新鲜。
Let me tell you a Nigerian joke.	我给你们讲个尼日利亚笑话。
Well, it's just a joke, anyway.	不管怎样，这都只是个笑话。
And Dick and Harry repeat this.	李四和王五也重复了同样的话。
They wished they'd not packed rice.	她们希望自己没有装米饭。
Story is fluid and it belongs to nobody.	故事是流淌的，它不属于任何人。
A lot of us are very privileged.	我们中的很多人享有特权。
So I went to Google Earth and learned about Africa.	因此我上谷歌网，去了解非洲。
Ghosts cannot slip back inside the body's drum.	"鬼魂无法溜回身体之鼓"
Pressure can make everything whole again.	"压力使得万物再次变得完整，"
I have to drive trouble in the hills.	"我不得不将烦恼赶入山林。"
Trouble in the valley, and trouble by the river too.	"赶入深谷。""跟随河流走远。"
There is no palm wine, fish, salt, or calabash.	"没有棕榈酒，鱼，盐和葫芦。"
Kadoom. Kadoom. Kadoom.	鬼魂毁灭。鬼魂毁灭。鬼魂毁灭。
Rise and walk away like a panther."	"起身像黑豹一样走远。"
I beat up the pasta maker to make that.	我做的这个战胜了意大利面制造机。
No, she's not, she's beautiful.	不，我开玩笑的，她很漂亮苗条的。
This is how they looked when they came out at the end.	这是最后它们制作出来后的样子。
Next is a compilation of a bunch of stuff.	接下来的是这一系列东西的合辑。
This is a squishy head, for no apparent reason.	这是可以挤压的脑袋，做着玩的。
And they go, "Oh, that's really nice," and out it goes.	他们行动了，噢，表现得真好。
I'm using little phone connectors to make them so they can spin.	我用电话连接器使他们能旋转。
And then, I made a Lego animator.	然后我做了个乐高积木动画仪。
You can see how old this stuff is.	你们可以看到这个东西有多老旧。
You see the keyboard strapped to my wrist.	你们看的见键盘绑在我的手腕上。
I love toys!	我头昏眼花……我爱玩具！
But it's not how you actually get leverage.	但这不是你得到优势的方法。
Actually, you have to put a circle around that, and call it business.	你还得在上面加上一环，商业。
He actually has skeletor legs, I think, he's wearing there.	他实际上有骨架大腿，我想是的。
And that's our little, thirty-cent Mabuchi motor.	那是30美分买来的万宝至马达。
So that turned out to be a little more than true.	所以就显得有点比真实还真实。
So there's the back of his head with a billion holes in it.	所以他脸的后面有10亿个小孔。
And then she started doing these other images.	接着她开始做其他的设想了。
There's my favorite, Demon Furby.	这是我最喜欢的，恶魔Furby。
We snuck in on the weekend.	我们在周末偷偷的摸进去。
And so we just had a disc of the files.	所以我们还有一张光盘的资料。
And on the weekend we ran the parts for that.	在周末我们为了那个运行这些部分。
And then they looked like little Garfields there.	然后他们看起来像些小加菲猫。
And I just a little bit on each one.	而我只是在每个上面赚了一点点。
So full circle -- why do I do this?	整个来说，为什么我要做这个？
And then I started another company.	接着我又去开办了另一家公司。
And they said they'd spend all this time.	他们还说他们愿意花全部时间去做。
And you could actually find full fossil evidence of these.	你可以找到它们完整的化石痕迹。
Here's an example of what we did with the skull.	这里有个我们怎么处理头骨的例子。
There's the skull, there's my drawing of a skull.	这是头骨，这是我的头骨图样。
There's kind of the skin version of the soft tissue.	这是某种意义上的皮肤软组织样本。
There's the skull, pretty much the same shape as the Camarasaurus.	这是头骨，非常近似圆顶龙的形状。
There's a photorealistic eye behind a lens.	这是镜头后的一个照相写实眼。
They had to fit within the envelope.	他们必须能被包裹在塑胶封套内。
You have to get the look for the skin.	你必须去处理皮肤的外观。
And we're still trying to keep with the real character.	而我们依旧尝试接近真实的角色。
John, do you want to bring him up?	约翰，你可以把他带上来吗？
So this one, this one's actually asleep, and -- hang on.	所以这个，这只睡着了，等一下——
But they have 40 sensors all over their body.	它们拥有40个传感器遍布全身。
There's something big and loud over here.	在这里有一些大且响的东西。
That's good, wake up, wake up, wake up.	这很好，起来，起来，起来。
Yeah, they're like kids, you know.	是的，它们就像小孩子，你们知道。
And there's a lot of social responsibility in that.	而且那其中包含大量的社会责任。
And I'm not the first person to ask this question.	这个问题不是我首先提出的。
It's staggering, if you think about Coca-Cola.	谈到可口可乐，他们可真是不得了。
They sell 1.5 billion servings every single day.	他们每天能售出十五亿瓶可乐。
So let's start with the data.	我们先看一下他们的数据管理。
It's a lot like other consumer companies.	它很像其它以顾客为导向的公司。
Let's contrast that for a minute to development.	我们看一下这和发展有什么异同。
They're good at tapping into that local entrepreneurial talent.	他们善于扶植当地企业人才。
Let's look at the development side.	我们现在从发展的角度来看看。
Well, they're already starting talk about this.	他们现在已经开始商量这事了。
They sometimes store grain in it.	他们有时候用它来储藏粮食。
I've even seen it used for a chicken coop.	我还见过有人用它来做鸡笼呢。
Women are refusing to marry men without toilets.	妇女们不嫁家里没安厕所的男人。
But more importantly, it saves lives.	但更重要的是，它拯救了生命。
And can you guess what the young men are waiting for?	大家猜猜这些小伙子在等候什么？
They're waiting to be circumcised.	他们正等候着做包皮切除手术。
Well, why is all of this so important?	那为什么这一切那么重要呢？
Well how did that happen?	是什么导致了这样的变化呢？
But let me make the story a little bit more concrete for you.	我再给大家讲一个更具体的例子。
Now it could have come from one of two places.	这种病毒株可能来自一下两个地方。
It's not the marketing on the ground.	它跟通常意义上的市场营销有区别。
To me, that is deep happiness.	对于我而言，这是种由衷的幸福。
And this is something that is very unusual in today's coral reefs.	这在今天的珊瑚礁就很难见到了
What have we learned from these places?	我们从这样的地方学到了什么？
This is what we thought was natural.	这些是我们认为很正常的东西
The size of these boxes is bigger.	金字塔的每一层的面积更大
In Fanning Island, the corals are not recovered.	在方宁岛，珊瑚也还没有恢复。
The abundance, how many fish you have per square meter, increases almost 170 percent.	每平方米的鱼数量增加近170％。
They reproduce. That's population biology 101.	他们繁殖。这是基本生物学。
And same thing for invertebrates. This is the example.	无脊椎动物也是一样。举个例子。
This is in the Bahamas: Nassau grouper.	这是在巴哈马拿骚石斑鱼。
Two examples, again, of how these reserves can benefit people.	再举两个保护区如何让人受益的例子
Fishermen knew about these things; they caught them, and they depleted them.	渔民知道这些。他们把鱼一网打尽。
And with the fishery, the entire reproductive ability of the species goes extinct.	整个物种的繁殖能力也会跟着灭绝
So how much of this do we have?	那我们现在有多少保护区呢？
And how can we reach that goal?	我们怎么才能达到这个目标呢？
The big one is moving very slowly, and the small one is moving fast.	大的那个转得很慢，小的则转得飞快
The last one's a personal question.	最后一个是一个个人的问题
And in the oceans, there are the longest mountain ranges on the planet.	其实地球上最长的山脉都在海洋里。
Most of the animals are in the oceans.	大部分的动物也都生活在海洋里。
But see all those different working things?	看到这些在动的东西了吗？
It's got tentacles dangling, swirling around like that.	还有这些摇晃着，旋转着的触角。
They come in all different sizes and shapes.	它们大小不同，形状各异。
They go from a couple of inches to a couple of feet.	它们有的几英尺长，有的几尺长。
This is kind of like an undersea rooster.	它看起来有点像深海里的公鸡。
This guy, that looks incredibly formal, in a way.	看这个，它看起来真的太正经了。
They don't catch them in a net.	他们不会用鱼网来捕这些生物。
They're actually looking at them down in that world.	他们会在它们的世界中观察它们。
And eventually, we can come up with something like this.	最终我们会看到像这样的东西。
Here's where Bill's cameras really do shine.	这里是比尔的相机真正出彩的地方。
And we started to wonder for a long time, how did it all get down there?	我们开始想它为什么在那里？
He's managed to grab a tip of these worms.	它能钳住蠕虫的一小部分。
Now, they normally retract as soon as a crab touches them.	它们通常一碰到螃蟹就缩回去。
What we saw up till now was from the Pacific.	直到现在我们看到的都来自太平洋。
This is from the Atlantic. Even greater depth.	这些是来自大西洋。而且更深。
So, the bacteria grows hair on the crab.	所以细菌可以在蟹背上长出毛来。
On the back, you see this again.	现在你又看到了同样的在发生。
Those pillars get up to several stories.	这些柱子可以有几层楼高。
This is the first time we've ever tried this any place.	这是我们在这里的第一次尝试。
We're moving up one of these pillars.	我们现在沿着根柱子向上走。
Now here's a closer view of that community.	现在可以更近距离地看到这个群体。
There are smaller animals crawling around.	这些更小地动物会蜷缩在周围。
This stuff is toxic as hell, by the way.	对了，这些物质可是带有剧毒的。
That's probably where we evolved from.	我们很可能是从这里开始进化。
The worms are growing inches per week!	这些蠕虫每星期长好几尺！
Is it sensitive? Yes.	它是否是很敏感呢？是的。
I'll end up with saying one thing.	我在结束前还要说一个故事。
It's an incredible story.	只是一个难以置信的故事。
It's absurd. It's just absurd.	这就很荒唐。真的很荒唐。
The concept of preservation is futile.	而努力去保存现状则是徒劳的。
You're impatient with things that don't resolve quickly.	人们对不能快速解决的事情不耐烦。
It's been obvious in my practice, to me.	在我的实践中，我一目了然。
First things first, we eliminate all the substeps.	第一件事，我们简化子步骤。
None of it's a distractor, so we lose that.	没有一个是多余信息，用不着删除。
Such an underrepresented question in math curriculum.	这在数学课里是不具代表性的问题。
So now we have the real deal.	现在我们有了真实的东西。
That's how you know you've baited the hook, right?	这就是你想要引起关注的地方，好。
And then we follow the process I've described.	然后孩子们遵照我描述的过程。
We, instead, just watch the end of the movie.	我们却看到了录像的结尾。
Math is the vocabulary for your own intuition.	数学也是描述人们直觉的词汇。
What ever happened to the Small Hadron Collider?	小型强子对撞器出什么事了？
Because the Small Hadron Collider once was the big thing.	因为小型强子对撞器曾经是大的
The whole Hadron Collider family needs unlocking.	整个强子对撞器团队需要被解放
And they have absolutely amazing education systems.	他们的教育系统绝对令人叹为观止
It's one of the hundreds of favelas in Rio.	是里约上百个贫民区中的一个
Almost all of that growth will be in the developed world.	大部分的人口增长会在发达地区。
He was turning over 200,000 dollars a week.	他一个星期经手二十万美元
He was going to be dead by the age of 25.	估计活不到二十五岁就得死
Millions of people living here, stretched over many kilometers.	上百万人住在这里方圆有好几公里
So there are schools in slums like this.	可见这类贫民区是有学校设施的
They are to stay alive, to earn a living, to not become HIV positive.	而是如何生存，谋生不得艾滋病。
Ten years ago, they certainly would have been married.	十年前，这个年龄肯定已经结婚了
The reason they went on studying was this.	她们继续学习的原因是这个。
Most of the children there have parents who are illiterate.	那里大部分孩子的家长是文盲。
Many of them don't have electricity at home.	很多孩子的家里还没有通上电。
That isn't really going to attract him.	那没法真正地引起他的兴趣。
And so education needs to work by pull, not push.	所以教育需要吸引，不能灌输。
And you also need to make it intrinsically interesting.	还要从本质上把学习搞得有趣
Well, you create your own teachers.	那么，你就自己创造一个老师
So I met this character, Steven.	我遇到了一个叫史蒂夫的人
Learning has to be productive in order for it to make sense.	学习内容必须要能致用才有意义
It's the largest NGO in education in the world.	它是全世界最大的教育类非政府组织
And it's the same wherever you go.	这样你的东西无论到哪都是一个样子
Why can't we do it more like the Chinese restaurants?"	为什么不能像中餐馆那样搞呢？"
You know a Chinese restaurant when you see it.	但你一看就知道这是个中餐馆
They fail to reach the people they most need to serve.	它们帮不到那些最需要帮助的人
They often hit their target but miss the point.	他们经常是找对了对象，办错了事
So that's why we need three more kinds of innovation.	这就是为什么我们需要另外三种创新
So we certainly need more of that.	我们毫无疑问需要更多这类东西
It's recognizably 19th century in its roots.	本质里还有它十九世纪的原型
And of course it's a huge achievement.	当然教育系统已经取得了巨大的成就
And of course it will bring great things.	也将会带来一些很棒的东西
It will bring skills and learning and reading.	它能给人带来技能，学问和知识
It will lay waste to appetite. It will lay waste to social confidence.	浪费求知欲，浪费社会信心
This is the gay lifestyle.	这就是同性恋的生活方式。
This is the super duper evil gay lifestyle.	这就是令人讨厌的同性恋生活
And I didn't know where he was going with it at first.	一开始我也没弄明白他想表达什么。
And he says, "I want to spend the rest of my life with you."	他说，"我想和你共度人生。"
And sometimes I just wear it just because.	有时候，我戴着它，仅仅因为
What are these gays up to?	这些同性恋究竟在干些什么？
Did you soak it all in? The gay agenda.	你沉浸在其中吗？同性恋的议程。
Run for your heterosexual lives.	赶紧过你的异性恋生活吧。
All of which flies in the face of the gay agenda, also known as the U.S. Constitution.	这些行为都是公开不顾同性恋议程，
Nonetheless, our forefathers, right?	但是，是我们的先辈，对么？
We keep doing this over and over again.	我们竟然一次又一次地做这种事。
That person next to you is a brother, is a sister.	站在您旁边的，是您的兄弟姐妹
And they should be treated with love and respect.	请平等地用爱和尊重对他/她
How many of you have checked your email today?	你们有几个人今天查看邮箱了？
And how about finances? Anybody check that today?	资金账户呢？有人今天查看了没？
A few energy geeks spread out across the room.	这个房间中有一些能源极客。
Turn off your air conditioning, turn on your fans.	只要关掉空调，使用电扇。
Another group got an environmental message.	另一组收到的是环境方面的留言。
In fact, none of these messages worked.	事实上，没有一条留言起到作用。
And we're not burning anything.	然而我们并不在燃烧任何东西，
That's half our coal usage right there.	我们一半的煤炭被用在那儿了。
It's in this room. It's you, and it's me.	在这个房间里，是你们，也是我。
It was then that her eyes lit up.	就在那时她的眼睛发亮了。
Now I'm here with a genuine expert.	现在我和一个真正的专家站在这儿。
My goal is to make sure we are all asking it.	我的目标是确保人人都在这么问。
How do we live it successfully?	怎么才能成功地度过这段时间？
What is the appropriate new metaphor for aging?	什么才是对年老的恰当比喻？
Age not at all as pathology; age as potential.	年龄根本不是病理学；年龄是潜力。
This potential is not for the lucky few.	这种潜力并不专属于幸运的少数人。
We tend to see commonalities more than differences.	我们逐渐发现共同处多于差异处。
Some of the studies even say we're happier.	有些研究甚至表明我们更快乐
This is not what I expected, trust me.	这不是我所预料的，真的。
I have such a powerful feeling of well-being.	我感觉过得十分安康得乐。
You realize, you're still yourself -- maybe even more so.	我们自己还是那个自己－也许更多。
How did they treat my parents?	他们是怎样对待我的父母的？
And you're able to go back and forgive them and forgive yourself.	这样你就能原谅他们也原谅自己。
You're able to free yourself from your past.	把自己从过去的阴影中释放出来。
You can work to change your relationship to your past.	并尝试改变对待自身过去的态度。
It's like resetting a thermostat.	这就像重新设置恒温器一样。
Do you know how many species of flowering plants there are?	各位知道有多少中开花植物么？
They take an enormous amount of energy and a lot of resources.	需要大量的经历和许多资源。
And that's actually rather useful for forensics and so on.	这其实对法医学等等相当有用。
So this is a plant that is mimicking the first plant.	这种植物在模仿前一种植物。
Now deceit carries on through the plant kingdom.	这种谎言遍布整个植物王国。
And the flowers don't really have to be that gaudy.	这些花实际上没有必要这么艳丽。
This, which is helicodiceros, is also known as dead horse arum.	这是白星海芋，也被称作死马海芋。
They fly into this thing, and they fly all the way down it.	飞入其中，一路飞入其中。
I photographed this thing last week in Dorset.	我上周在多塞特拍摄的这个。
That sort of phallic bit there is about a foot long.	它的雄蕊有大约一英尺长。
"Now why does it do this," I hear you ask.	为什么要这么做？我听到你们问。
And this is what it looks like with visible light.	在可见光下它看起来是这样的。
And that's a real fantastic bull's eye.	这像是个真实的奇妙的靶心。
So maybe the chemical in that would be useful.	因此或许其中的化学物质有些用处。
That's the main use of that filter.	这是这种滤镜的主要用途。
All these things happen to me.	所有这些都发生在我身上。
And so this was just an amazing experience.	所以这只是一次"绝妙的体验"。
There was three years where I actually did have a real job, sort of.	有三年时间，我有了真正的工作
And this is one of my favorite shots here.	这也是我最喜爱的照片之一。
Just imagine if that's a black guy.	想象一下，如果这是一个黑人。
Right? Like, seriously, nobody would do this.	是吗？说真的，没有人会这么做。
But every other medium does it.	但所有其他的媒介都会这么做。
"Can I play a game, Mommy?"	"我可以玩游戏了吗，妈妈?"
And so I happened to have all of these little pieces.	碰巧我有很多这种小玩具。
So she's painting her little families.	她在画她的迷你家庭成员。
This is a game with 50,000 individual pieces.	这个游戏有着5万个独立的零件。
It's the same thing.	这和之前的游戏是类似的。
I'll look away from the picture.	我还是先不看这张照片好了。
This is a project called Flight Patterns.	这个方案叫做"飞行模式"。
Everybody's moving from the East coast to the West coast.	大家正从东海岸飞往西海岸。
You see the holding patterns that start to develop in the bottom of the screen.	你看在屏幕下方，控制模式在变化。
And you can see, eventually the airport actually flips directions.	你可以看到，最终机场的方向翻转。
So now on to something completely different.	现在来看看一个完全不同的东西。
I can tap into thousands of people's minds."	我可以利用成百上千的智力资源。"
So I created this drawing tool.	所以我设计了这个制图工具。
I asked people to draw a sheep facing to the left.	我请人们画一只面向左边的羊。
And I said, "I'll pay you two cents for your contribution."	我说，"为此我支付你2美分。"
Obviously, we think of sheep as followers.	显然，我们认为羊是追随者。
And the whole idea of one's relationship to their work changed a lot.	人们与工作之间的关系改变了很多。
This is again showing all the different contributions.	这是一个展示多样化的作品。
This is what it would look like if you went to the site.	你打开网页后看到的就是这样。
You type in your code, but you first test your mic.	输入你的号码先测试下你的话筒。
You'd be fed a simple audio clip.	你会收到一份简单的视频短片。
And then you'd do your best to recreate that with your own voice.	然后你用你的嗓音去尽量创作。
And I was writing software to visualize laser scanners.	那是我在编写可视激光扫描仪。
As you know, an animation is a series of images.	你知道的，动画就是一系列的图像。
One is the beginning of the music video.	一个是这个音乐录影带的开头。
You can actually see the point when I know what I'm doing, and a lot of light and dark comes into it.	我了解了我正在做什么，茅塞顿开。
You're hearing a person's life.	你在听的是一个人的一生。
And you can also see the way that it was drawn.	你也可以看到该图像的制作过程。
In fact, I see it more as a spiral.	事实上，我觉得那过程曲折的多。
I was not born with a blade in my hand.	我并不是生来就对剪纸天赋异禀。
And I don't remember papercutting as a child.	我甚至都不记得我小时候剪过纸。
And it's also just getting to the essential of things.	而且它的确能触及事物的本质。
So artist books have a lot of definitions.	人们对艺术家之书有不同的定义。
They come in a lot of different shapes.	他们也有很多不同的形式。
And this spider spins a bilingual alphabet.	这个蜘蛛织出了双语的字母组合。
And I'm making all those kinds of windows.	我还剪过各种各样的窗户。
So it's to look beyond the surface.	这是为了让人们能够透过表象去看。
And very often I've been an outsider.	我有多时候都像是一个旁观者。
It would make a very uplifting world.	那这个世界可就令人振奋的多了。
And my inspirations are very eclectic.	其实我的灵感是非常不拘一格的。
It's a non-sugar-coated history of sugar.	是没有包上糖衣的糖的历史。
Other times, it's not even my stories.	有时候我甚至不只剪我自己的故事。
One story leads to another.	一个故事会引出另一个故事。
And parallel to my cutting is my running.	其实我的剪纸经历就跟跑步差不多。
Then I went to run 50K, then 60K.	后来我开始跑50公里，60公里。
It's two panels 13 ft. high.	它由两个13英尺高的镶板组成。
You have people renting their wings in the heavens.	天堂里有人出租自己的翅膀。
So you can take it off the wall.	你可以把它们从墙上取下来。
They are more our social identities.	这更像是我们的社会身份。
That's another artist book project.	这是我的另一个艺术家之书作品。
It is travel in time, travel on time.	乘坐地铁跟及时和准时旅行有关。
I also planted the bibliotree.	我还"种"了一颗"书目之树"。
And it's all about international writing systems.	它们是关于各种国际写作体系的。
You can also have function and form with public art.	公共艺术同样可以拥有实用功能。
It's a story about transformation and connections.	这是一个关于变化与连接的故事。
So each building has its own personality.	每一栋建筑都有自己的个性。
So I brought back the rabbit, the dragonfly, to stay in that street.	我把兔子，蜻蜓都带回了这条街上。
And I wanted to give them an escape.	所以我想给他们一个逃跑的机会。
So the stories, they have a lot of possibilities.	这些故事给我们展示了许多可能性。
They have a lot of scenarios.	同样它们也有不同的情节。
And it's what story cutting is all about.	才是裁剪故事的最终意义。
It's perhaps easier now than ever before to make a good living.	现在或许比以前更容易过上好生活
Because sometimes people from outside the U.K.	有时候英国以外的人会想象
It exists. What is a snob?	它确实存在。势利是什么？
Now, the opposite of a snob is your mother.	势利鬼的相反，是你的母亲
I don't think we are particularly materialistic.	我并不认为我们特别看重物质
And that's a new way of looking at luxury goods.	这赋予奢侈品一个崭新的意义
In other words -- feel sympathy, rather than contempt.	也就是说－同情他们，不要鄙视他们
And it's linked to the spirit of equality. Let me explain.	嫉妒来自生而平等的精神。这么说吧
The reason why we don't envy her is because she's too weird.	我们不会嫉妒她的原因是她太怪异了
But the point is, it doesn't feel that way.	但重点是，感觉却差别很大
And that makes failure seem much more crushing.	这种想法让失败变得更残忍
They own their success. But they also own their failure.	人们拥有成功，也拥有失败
You don't necessarily know what someone's true value is.	你很有可能不知道他人的真正价值
You know, the number one organ of ridicule nowadays, is the newspaper.	今日世界上最会嘲笑人的便是报纸
They've slept with the wrong person. They've taken the wrong substance.	他们与错误对象共枕，使用错误药物
And then are fit for ridicule.	让人在茶余饭后拿来挖苦的新闻
It would be insane to call Hamlet a loser.	你不会说汉姆雷特是个失败者
He is not a loser, though he has lost.	虽然他失败了，他却不是一个失败者
We think very highly of ourselves, and so we should.	我们对自己评价极高，为什么不呢
It's an escape from our own competition, and our own dramas.	逃避人们的疯狂竞争我们的戏剧化
You can't be successful at everything.	你不可能在所有事情上成功
We hear a lot of talk about work-life balance.	我们常听到有关工作和休闲的平衡
We should focus in on our ideas.	我们应该专注于我们自己的目标
But what I really want to stress is by all means, success, yes.	但我真正想说的是成功是必要的
Let's probe away at our notions of success.	朝着自己对成功的定义出发
So we should do everything we can, we should do everything we can to pursue it.	我们应该尽力尽力去追求正义
And it's that that I'm trying to leave room for.	我希望大家留一点空间这么想
You want to think, who would you like as your ideal dad?	你必须想，你的理想父亲是怎样的？
And your ideal dad is somebody who is tough but gentle.	你的理想父亲往往是严厉又温和的
How had I spent my valuable time?	我是怎样利用珍贵的时间的？
And then my mother died at 82.	然后，我妈妈在八十二岁时去世了。
It was deep in my imagination.	我一直想象着自己去做这件事。
It's more than a hundred miles across a difficult passage of ocean.	超过一百多英里的艰难海路，
As a matter of fact, this picture is supposed to be me during training.	其实，这张照片拍的是训练中的我，
And I started swimming, and, oh my God, it was glassy.	然后我开始游了。天哪，水可真清。
It's not going to feel this good all the way across.	不会让你从头到尾都感觉良好。
The most venomous animal that lives in the ocean is the box jellyfish.	海洋生物中最毒的就是这盒水母
And he's saying, "Bonnie, I think I'm going to die.	他说，"邦尼，我想我快要完蛋了。
They either die or they quickly get to a hospital.	他们不是死就是要赶紧送医院。
And the next night at dusk, again, wham!	第二天黄昏的时候，又一次，我靠！
I'll just swim right through them.	我会直接游过去，穿越它们。
Well there was no grin and bearing this.	可惜这里没有咬牙忍住这回事。
And they can send the poison into the system.	然后把毒液注入你的身体系统。
And a little kid from the back was like this.	一个坐在后排的男孩就这样。
"Henry, what's your question?"	"亨利，你有什么问题？"
Because we've all had them, haven't we?	因为我们都曾有过，不是吗？
It's the only swim I'm interested in.	这是我唯一感兴趣的游泳。
I have three more years than I thought.	比我自己原先想的还要多三年。
This is the first one. This is an electrocardiogram.	这是第一个，这是一组心电图
You check your email while you're sitting here.	今天你可以坐在这里查收邮件
This is already available today.	其实这些今天都已经实现了
And then as we go further, today we have continuous glucose sensors.	进一步讲今天在我们的皮肤下
We're going to zoom in on that a little bit.	在这里，我们花一点时间稍作解释
This sets up consumer-driven healthcare.	它引起了以消费者为导向的医疗革命
Well, I tried this device.	因此，我尝试使用这种设备。
But this monitors food, it monitors activity and tracks weight.	但这个还监控饮食，运动和体重
How long did you do it for?"	你和你的爱人做爱多长时间
So, now I want to move to sleep.	好的，让我们转向下一个，睡眠
This thing is very, very impressive.	这件事情让我印象非常非常深刻
It's like a managed competition of sleep.	这好像是一个睡眠竞争比赛
OK. Now let's move from sleep to diseases.	好的，让我们再从睡眠转向疾病
Now, diabetes is one of the big ones.	糖尿病就是其中人数最多的一种
And sleep disorders.	也可以通过这样的方法来控制
There are two things that can really accelerate this whole process.	能推动这个进程的有两件事
San Diego is an extraordinary place for this.	圣地亚哥是一个非常适合做研究地方
And finally, another example: sudden cardiac death.	此外，另一个实例就是心源性猝死
The problem is, how many people should there be?	该有多少人同时生存在这世界上？
And it's a sort of choice we have to make.	这是一个我们需要做的一个选择
And there's one solution that's probably only a few years off.	大概在隔几年后会有解决的办法。
So one thing we can do is live longer.	所以唯一我们能做得是活的更久。
And so there won't be any workforce.	而且那也不会有劳动人口。
I taught myself to cook with a bunch of big books like this.	我通过一堆这类书自学如何烹饪
And it's largely what you would find in these books.	这些通常你都能在这些书里面找到
But that's not in any of those books.	但是这些没有写进任何一本书里
He's developed a very avant-garde cuisine.	他发明了一种很先锋派的烹饪方式
None of them are taught in cooking schools.	他们没有谁是在过烹饪学校进修过
This is actually the first picture I took in the book.	实际这是我书里第一张照片
And one of our canning cutaways.	这是我们其中一个罐头剖面图
And each of these text blocks explains a key thing that's going on.	这些文字每段都解释了所发生的关键
Of course, you're not actually working the whole time.	当然了，你并非一直在工作
Most of the time is kind of sitting there.	大部分时间只需要坐在那里
I said, "It would have to show up free."	我说，"为了能免费展出。"
We used a red, very high-temperature silicon to do that.	我们用一种红色的、耐高温的硅胶
In most cases, though, there was no glass.	虽然在大部分情况下并没有玻璃
One of our cooks lost his eyebrows that way.	我们有一个厨师就是这样丢掉了眉毛
I personally wrote thousands of lines of code to write this cookbook.	我自己为了这本书就写了数千行程序
So as you move vertically away from this surface, the heat falls off.	当你在垂直方向远离热源时热度降低
As you move side to side, it moves off.	当你从水平移动时，热度会消失
You know, there's two ways you can make a product.	你们知道，推出一个产品有两种办法
Here's a step-by-step that shows grinding hamburger.	这里手把手地教你怎样制作汉堡
And it's really simple, as you can see here.	真的很简单，就如你在这儿看到的
There's a mushroom, ketchup -- it goes on and on.	有蘑菇，番茄酱，以及其它各种材料
That's what's happening to the water inside that popcorn.	这就是玉米粒中的水发生的事
A talk about surgical robots is also a talk about surgery.	谈论手术机器人也就是谈论手术。
This is a trephinated skull.	这是一个做过环钻术的头颅骨，
And trephination is simply just cutting a hole in the skull.	环钻术简单说就是在头上凿个洞。
Five to 10 thousand years! Now imagine this.	时间退回五千至一万年！想象一下。
You are a healer in a Stone Age village.	你是石器时代村落里的一个治疗师，
Now we've got the dawn of interventional surgery here.	现在我们看到了介入性手术的曙光。
And we see new refined tools coming out.	我们看到精良的手术器械出现了。
This persisted all the way into and through the Renaissance.	这种情况一直延续到文艺复兴时期。
I mean who would put themselves through that?	我的意思是谁愿意经受那种手术？
Anesthesia gave surgeons the freedom to operate.	麻醉使得外科医生可以自由操作，
This was truly a revolution in surgery.	这的确是手术的一场革命。
But there was a pretty big problem with this.	但还是有个非常大的问题。
And yet, operative mortality dropped profoundly.	然而，手术死亡率却极大地降低了。
And it really changed the landscape of surgery.	它真正改变了手术的景观。
It looks very different from what you're expecting surgery to look like.	它与你所想象的外科手术非常不同。
These techniques were a lot harder to learn than people had anticipated.	这些技术比人们预料的更难掌握。
And during that learning curve the complications went quite a bit higher.	在这期间并发症上升相当高。
They had to give up intuitive motion in the instruments.	不得不放弃对器械的直觉运动。
Now this is a particularly frustrating placement of the needle.	现在特别令人沮丧的是针的安置，
And the instruments are essentially working backwards.	这个器械基本上是逆向工作的。
And so here you're seeing the operation of this wrist.	在这里你可以看到这个腕子在操作。
And there are some reasons, some good reasons.	是有一些理由的，一些好的理由。
And so it's perfect for something like that.	机器人用于这类手术非常好。
And then you need to add some more ports, and more.	你需要增加一些接口，更多的接口。
And the problem is it gets time-consuming, and cumbersome.	这时的问题就是费时费力。
How would that change the capabilities of the surgeon?	它会如何改变外科医生的技能？
And how would that change the experience for the patient?	它会如何改变病人的经历？
This is the camera, and three instruments.	这是摄像头，还有三个器械。
But it's all coming in through one incision.	但所有都从一个小切口进去。
We need to be able to guide what we're cutting in a much better way.	我们要能够用更好的方法指导手术。
It will go, bind to the cancer.	它可以与肿瘤结合在一起。
And we can make those markers glow.	我们可以让那些标记物发光，
And the prospect I'm offering you, of an easier surgery ...	我提供给你的简单手术的前景
I'm not sure I really even want it to.	我不能确定我是否真想让它这样。
And I would never want to deprive you of that epiphany.	我从来不想剥夺你的顿悟，
And they were a lot of fun.	而且他们是相当幽默的一对。
But people live on this land.	但人们生活在这片土地上，
And yet, how did it start?	然而，这部片子是如何开头的？
Design is the same way. Design has to become that same way.	设计也是一样，也得成为这样。
This is an unusual installation of airport seating.	这是个不同寻常的机场座位设计。
And I'm really here to talk about design.	而我在这里谈的是纯粹的"设计"。
It's a pivot between a process and a system.	是"过程"与"系统"之间的中枢。
So I've always liked this prototype picture.	所以我一直很喜欢这张标准图片。
My sister is chasing someone else. It's not me.	我姐姐在追的不是我，是别人。
The chair is done in 1949.	这把椅子就是在1949年做的。
They tried to solve the design problem.	他们试图解决设计上的问题。
This is the earlier design of that house.	这是那栋房子最早的设计。
The familiar one on the lower right.	右下角是为人熟知的版本。
And a lamp that Charles designed for a church.	还有查尔斯为一所教堂设计的灯。
Everybody here is coming at it from a different way.	每个人展现尺度的方式都不同。
So here is the tiny creature.	你们现在看到的是蚂蚁这个小东西。
They are often the precursor to bigger things.	它们常常是更大事物的前兆。
Sun? No. Well is there another name for a sunrise?	Sun太阳?不对，有近义词吗？
Also rode on one. I ...	"而且坐了一趟，我……"
So you guys did pretty good, cool.	你们大家挺厉害的，不错。
Those plaques are plaques we've been installing around North America.	这些饰板我们在北美到处都在做。
We're about to do six in the U.K. next week.	下周我们要在英国做六个。
And they honor events in the linear world from the fictional world.	它们为各世界中的事件赋予荣誉。
And we could have been born 100,000 years ago.	我们完全可能产生在十万年前。
But now I'm going to return you to the real world.	不过现在我要带你们回到现实世界。
So let's watch that. Nobody's ever seen it.	来看吧，从没有人看过呢。
Silent. We don't have a track for it yet.	无声电影，我们还没有影片的声效。
"Beyond the age of information is the age of choices."	"信息时代之后将是选择时代。"
And I thought, "No way, no way."	我当时想，"这绝对是扯淡。"
All the rest were historical.	其余的讲的都是历史中的奴隶制。
Now, where is it?	那么，现在哪里还有奴隶呢？
Well, it builds up with these factors.	造成如今奴隶现状的有三点因素，
Being numerous does not make you a slave.	人口众多并不导致奴隶问题，
All around the world I've been told an almost identical story.	对，这个故事放之四海皆准。
We really like the human being story a lot.	我们现在对人口的贸易很感兴趣。
It's a horrible situation.	这可真是一个可怕的情形。
Liberation, however, costs some money.	诚然，解放奴隶确实需要花一些钱。
It's not exactly a low-cost proposition.	并不是一个低成本的投资。
They are growing because they have high levels of skills.	它们在发展因为他们有高水准的技能
So as a result, my employer is going to be less productive.	因而导致我的雇主降低生产率
They will not be able to afford to pay me as good wages.	他将无法支付我良好的工资
That percentage does not vary much from state to state.	这个比例在各州之间变化不大
Well, one obvious barrier is cost.	嗯，一个明显的障碍就是费用
So, 30 billion dollars is a lot of money.	那么，300亿美金是很大一笔资金
It's just a simple matter of political will to do it.	这只是政府会不会去做的问题
So, a superconductor is defined by two properties.	那么，超导体具备两种特性。
That sounds complicated, right?	这听起来有点复杂，是吗？
So, electricity is the flow of electrons inside a material.	那么，电就是物体内部的电子流。
It's quite remarkable. Think about it.	想象一下，这是非常神奇的。
You see, it's quantum locking, not levitation.	你们看，这是量子锁定，而非悬浮。
Can I come up and get some iron?"	我能到你们那里拿点铁吗?"
I dragged out this stuff, and it wasn't iron.	我得到了这个东西，这并不是铁。
That's me getting mica.	这是我得到了云母的照片。
So I looked at other ways of making plastic.	所以我就看了其他做塑料的方法。
So this is attempting to make potato starch plastic.	这就是我尝试着做土豆淀粉塑料。
And for a while that was looking really good.	刚做好时，它看上去很棒。
TT: Yeah, I did plug it in.	呃，是的，我没有把它接入进去
So the wires were uninsulated.	所以，这些电线都是不绝缘的
Information technology grows in an exponential manner.	信息技术正以指数幅度发展。
And it's not just computation.	这两者的差异不仅仅局限于数值。
It makes a huge difference.	这之间差了十万八千里啊。
And we're going to do it again in the next 25 years.	这样的快速发展还会保持25年。
And it doesn't just apply to computation.	它不仅仅局限于信息技术。
And I just updated these graphs.	这些图是我刚刚更新过的。
So we updated them, so I could present it here, to 2007.	所以我将它们更新至2007年。
But look at how predictable this is.	看看科技发展是多么好预测的。
And I'd say this knowledge is over-fitting to past data.	只是我会说这些资讯是过去式的了。
I've been making these forward-looking predictions for about 30 years.	我已经做过30年的前瞻性预测了。
But this has progressed at an exponential pace.	但科技正以指数步伐前进。
But where will we get the software?	但我们从哪里得到这些技术？
But we are learning more and more about the human brain.	岂知我们正逐步了解大脑。
The amount of data we're getting about the brain is doubling every year.	相关的数据，也随之一倍增长。
And we're all concerned about energy and the environment.	这还只是对能源和环境的影响。
This is an exciting new venture.	这是一次崭新的刺激冒险。
And we invite you to participate. Thank you very much.	我们邀请你们来参加。非常感谢。
I'd never seen the reef here before.	我以前从来没有在那看到过珊瑚。
Then someone on the tracks screamed.	然后站在铁轨上的一些人开始尖叫。
The water had started coming back. It was foaming over the reef.	水已经回来了。在珊瑚上泛起水沫。
But they had not had any time to evacuate any belongings.	但是他们没有时间去抢救财物。
[Unclear] They called me out here.	[不明]他们叫我从这出去。
They said, "The blogsters let us down."	他们说，博客作者让我们失望了。
So, that's the positive side of it.	所以，这是它积极的一面。
The metaphor that I like to use is the metaphor of the circular mill.	我在这想用转圆圈来打比方。
And what happens is that the ants eventually end up in a circle.	所以最终蚂蚁将会走出一个圆圈。
You think it's bad to lose one arm?	也许你觉得丢一个胳膊很惨,
We showed it to a bunch of guys.	我们展示了这个装置如何运作。
They take the load off, and it becomes, again, compliant.	要是减小载重，义肢又松弛。
The oceans cover some 70 percent of our planet.	海洋大约覆盖了地球表面的70%。
But I'll tell you some of that today.	今天，我要告诉你其中的一些。
And eventually, the deep sea floor would come into view.	最终，深海海床将映入眼帘。
They, in fact, are an endangered species themselves.	其实，他们自己才是濒危的物种。
And as I say, it could be a much larger number.	如我所说，数量可能会多得多。
And so at that time, of course, there was no refrigeration.	当然，那时候还没有制冷设备。
But the Romans developed salting.	但罗马人发明了用盐腌制的方法
So it's not all hopeless.	所以也并不完全无法挽回的。
It's from trophy fish caught off the coast of Florida.	这是从佛罗里达海岸捕捉到的冠军鱼
But this is no laughing matter.	但这并不是什么好笑的事。
So what's left? Actually quite a lot.	那么还剩下什么？其实还有很多。
One would send out sound waves that would bounce back.	其中一艘发出声波并反弹。
And that's an area about the size of Manhattan Island.	面积大约有一个曼哈顿岛那么大。
Well what they found was mislabeled fish.	她们发现了被错误标签的鱼
This is where our sampling effort has concentrated.	这是我们集中进行取样工作的地方。
That's the warm colors which show a well-sampled region.	暧色区显示的便是取样较好的地区
Now this guy, this bigfin squid, is seven meters in length.	这个家伙，莱氏拟乌贼，身长七米
We also talked about the White Shark Cafe.	我们还谈到了大白鲨咖啡馆地区
We found life in the extremes.	我们在极端环境中发生了生命
And so this particular bacterium is actually visible to the naked eye.	这种特别的细菌是肉眼可见的。
But the really intriguing thing about the microbes is just how diverse they are.	但真正吸引人的，是微生物的多样性
The other point I'd like to make about this is that this ocean's interconnected.	我想说的另一点是海洋是相互连通的
And there are a lot of other pressures.	另外还有很多其它的困扰。
What have I heard during these last four days?	在过去的四天里,我所到的是什么?
Movement is the only way you have of affecting the world around you.	动作是你唯一对世界产生影响的方法
So I am a movement chauvinist.	所以说，我是个运动沙文主义者
So it's a very simple algorithm.	所以其实这是个很简单的算法
And this is her getting the world record in real time.	下面就是她创下世界记录的实时情况
You send a command down, it causes muscles to contract.	你送出一个指令，令肌肉收缩
Now by noise, I do not mean sound.	我这里所说的"杂音"不是指声音
But we're going to represent beliefs with probabilities.	不过我们要把信念用概率来表示
So it's the optimal way of combining information.	并且这是整合信息的最佳方案
But you can imagine looking inside the brain.	不过我们能想象大脑内部发生了什么
I'm going to get the same feedback anyway.	毕竟最终我总能得到同样的回馈
So I get two sources.	所以感官回馈现在有两个来源
Any discrepancy should hopefully be external.	希望两者的差值应该就是外力的结果
What evidence is there for this?	那有什么证据支持这点吗？
And in the intervening years I had two daughters.	其间几年中，我有了两个女儿
And player two's been told, remember the experience of that force.	然后玩家二被告知记住这个力的感觉
Use your other hand to apply the force back down.	用另一只手把同样的力施加回来
So they don't know the rules the other person's playing by.	所以他们互相不知道对方遵循的规则
So I have a huge amount of choice to make.	所以我有非常多的选择余地
Now it turns out, we are extremely stereotypical.	不过结果是，我们都特别典型
We all move the same way pretty much.	都基本上用同一种方式移动
Well let's think about what really happens.	来想想真实情况可能是什么
Maybe we don't all quite move the same way.	假如我们并不都用同一种模式移动
So in evolutionary scales, movements get better.	那么在进化级别上，动作越来越优化
There are many diseases which effect movement.	有很多病症有对动作产生影响
And it uses it very differently once you think about it that way.	这样想的时候用法就不一样了
We know a lot about Mars.	我们知道很多火星的信息。
So, there is a lot of water below the surface.	所以，在表层下存在大量的水。
And you can see there are three distinct regions of methane.	可以看到有三个明显的甲烷区域。
These are the three plumes: A, B1, B2.	这是三个羽状物A,B1,B2。
That record exists on Mars.	但相关记录在火星上存在。
Here is Viking I, Viking II.	这是海盗一号，海盗二号。
This is Opportunity. This is Spirit.	这是幸运号。这是勇气号。
That's because the northern hemisphere is the region of the ancient ocean basin.	那是因为北半球是古海洋盆地区域。
We fly about a mile above the surface.	我们在表面飞行了大概一英里。
We will fly where the methane is.	我们将飞跃这些甲烷存在的区域。
How do we transport an airplane to Mars?	我们怎样将飞船运送到火星的呢？
How do we get it to Mars?	那么我们怎么把它运到火星？
We fold it, and we transport it in a spacecraft.	我们把它折叠，然后放入宇宙飞船。
And I want to show you one of our tests.	我将给你们展示我们的测试。
So, these are the Dark Ages.	我们都有黑暗时代。我说的
So then you realize there are these conventions.	接着你就开始注意到这些集会。
And I mean like this is a nerdy crowd, but that's like a couple of levels above furries.	我是说比一般的疯子要疯上好几倍
And so this is like this CAD program where you build it.	比如这个电脑辅助设计的软件。
And then some of the designs that people do they actually sell in the store.	有些好的设计他们还真在店里卖。
Because there aren't enough TED logos around here.	这间屋里TED的标志有点不够。
I've got to tell you, for me, everything changed that evening.	说实话，那个晚上改变了一切。
So, look what they did.	让我们看看沃尔玛是怎么做的。
I mean, why would you try to refrigerate a whole store?	你们说有什么必要对整个门店制冷？
They're the largest private employer in America.	沃尔玛是美国最大的民营企业雇主，
Consumers don't really like these light bulbs.	顾客实际上并不喜欢用这种灯泡。
I don't know, and I should.	我不知道，但我最好知道。
In fact, I'm certain California's not enough.	事实上，加利福尼亚这么做还不够。
They'd run ethanol or ordinary gasoline.	能够使用乙醇或者传统燃料，
And so, here's what's happened in Brazil.	这就是我们在巴西所见到的。
Their breakthrough technology is synthetic biology.	他们的突破性技术叫做合成生物学，
We're talking a lot about this.	我们所讨论的都是这方面的话题。
And I am really afraid that it's absolutely not enough.	我认为投资力度绝对不够。
And who would have thought that all that is not enough?	谁又会想到这些都还不够？
Really think outside the box.	我们要跳出固有的思维模式。
It could be bigger than Wal-Mart.	这影响可能远胜沃尔玛带来的。
And this spreads on out endlessly into a distance.	这样的关系无尽止地延伸出去。
And you get a network that looks like this.	这样你就有了一个像这样的网络。
Every dot is a person.	网络中的每一个点就是一个人。
And eventually, you saturate the population.	最终，这个群体就饱和了。
They actually diffuse through networks.	他们实际上是通过网络传播。
And there are different kinds of relationships between the people.	人们之间也有不同的关系。
And different sorts of things spread across different sorts of ties.	不同的事物通过不同的联系来传播。
For instance, sexually transmitted diseases will spread across sexual ties.	比如说，性病通过性关系传播。
Exactly what we predicted happened.	我们的预测一点不错的发生了。
The epidemic in the friends group has shifted to the left, over here.	朋友组的传染移到左边，这里
And in a minute now, I'm going to put this map into motion.	很快，我要使这个图动起来。
You're going to see kind of blooming of the flu in the middle.	在中间你就会看到流感开始爆发。
Would you get any population-level immunity?	这样能不能使整个群体免疫？
In the lobby, they painted the walls and planted trees.	在大堂，他们粉刷了墙面，种植了树
And you even find a church.	你甚至可以找到一个教堂。
Visiting the homes of the Zabbaleen is also full of surprises.	参观扎巴林的住家同样充满惊喜。
But that's not what happened in fact.	其实根本没有担心的必要。
Same thing happened in offices.	这种事儿也发生在办公室里。
But here was an interesting thing that came along.	之后发生了一件有意思的事情。
So office workers became programmers of spreadsheets.	他们成了电子表格的程序设计师。
It increased their capabilities.	电子表格增强了他们的能力。
So the robot takes over the dangerous jobs.	可见，机器人接管了危险性工作。
And they take the dirty sheets down to the laundry.	它们把脏布单送进洗衣房；
And ordinary people can't interact with them.	一般人没法与这些工业机器人交互。
And I think it's the sort of technology that's gone wrong.	我觉得这种科技走错了方向。
It's displaced the worker from the technology.	因为这种科技取代了工作者。
It's going to come bring it over here and put it down.	它把东西拿到这边，然后放下。
By the way, what's going on with the eyes?	你可能要问，那对眼睛是怎么回事？
It's got a little bit of basic common sense, goes and picks the objects.	这就是它的小本事——去拾东西。
And Baxter's safe to interact with.	和巴克斯特互动是安全的。
It puts a little icon there.	它在那个位置上放一个小图标。
That puts the green icon there.	然后在那个位置放一个绿色图标。
He didn't have to select that from a menu.	克里斯其实不用从菜单里选择。
They go to factories around the country.	它们会被送往全国各地的生产车间。
Now she's got the robot doing it.	现在，她可以让机器人去搞定。
The percentage of adults who are working age drops dramatically.	适龄工作成年人的百分比急剧下降。
And I think we're really going to have to have robots to help us.	我觉得，我们真得找机器人帮忙。
The point is then recorded into a 3D visualization program.	这个点就被3D可视化软件记录下来
All of this happens in seconds.	所有这些只要几秒就能完成
These would be used for education, cultural tourism, etc.	这些可用于教育文化观光等
This happens to be the cloud of points for Tikal.	这些是蒂卡尔的数据点集合
Last March, we received very sad news.	去年三月我们听到一个不幸的消息
The Royal Tombs had been destroyed by suspected arson.	卡苏比皇陵已经被纵火嫌疑犯毁掉了
You can look at it from on top, from the ceiling.	你能从天花板的角度俯瞰它
And one of the journalists said to her, what's up?	其中一个记者问她，怎么回事？
We had Holocaust education in the schools.	在学校我们有关大屠杀内容的教育。
It's bigger than the anti-apartheid movement.	它比反种族隔离运动规模要大。
It's got all the ups and the downs of movements.	经历了所有运动都有的高潮和低谷。
And it takes students to introduce genocide grades.	需要学生来介绍这种种族灭绝评分。
Why the limits to the movement?	这种运动的局限性是什么?
He was James Bond-like in that he was ingenious.	他像詹姆斯邦德是说他的机警灵活。
These are the places he was drawn to.	他正是被吸引到了这些地方。
He was in Sudan when the civil war broke out there.	当苏丹内战爆发时他正在那里。
He was in Mozambique for the War of Independence.	他在莫桑比克参与了独立运动。
The issues were, of course, ethnic sectarian violence.	那些事件是种族宗教暴力。
But, uh-oh, the killers are within the camps.	但是，哦，杀手也在那些难民营里。
But it was too late for Sergio.	但是这对塞尔吉奥来说已经太迟了。
I think that was his greatest quality.	我认为这是他最棒的品质。
And I recognize there is so much to be afraid of.	我认为要怕的东西有许多。
Let's not hype the threat; let's actually see it clearly.	我们不要夸大威胁；而是看清楚它。
We have reason to be afraid of melting ice caps.	我们有理由害怕融化的冰川。
We can't afford to pull back from the world.	我们承担不起逃离世界的后果。
It's a question of how to be in the world.	问题是该如何在这个世界上存在。
So will evil prevail? Is that the question?	恶行会蔓延吗？是这个问题吧？
Others think about Malthusian nightmares.	有些人会想起马尔萨斯的噩梦。
This is not a negotiable thing, hunger.	饥饿，这不是一个可以谈判的话题。
This is a picture of me and my three children.	这是我和我三个孩子的照片。
We know how to fix hunger.	我们知道怎样解决饥饿问题。
At our time in history, these images are out of place.	这些照片与历史上的今天格格不入。
And I also want to talk about what I call our new burden of knowledge.	我还想谈一下所谓的知识的新重担。
I'd like to talk about where the gap of knowledge is.	我想讲一下知识缺失在哪一环节。
This is something that can be transformed with knowledge.	这是知识可以改变的东西。
It doesn't need to be refrigerated, it doesn't need water, which is often lacking.	不需要冷藏，不需要经常稀缺的水。
The next thing I want to talk about is school feeding.	下一个我要讲的话题是学校供膳。
We see a transformation in attendance by girls.	我们看到女生入学率的变化。
We know that there's boom and bust cycles of hunger.	我们知道饥饿的循环有起有落。
So is this a hopeless cause?	那么这是一个不可救药的循环吗？
I'd like to talk about what I call digital food.	我想讲一下所谓的数码粮食。
The shopkeepers are hiring more people.	店主们雇佣着越来越多的帮手。
And we're seeing people transform their lives.	我们看到人们改变了他们的生活。
Now you'd ask, can this be done at scale?	你会问，这些能够大规模的实施吗？
And we're seeing nations in Africa.	我们看到非洲国家正联合起来。
What I would like to offer here is a challenge.	我想在这里提出一个挑战。
No more are we going to accept this."	我们不再接受这一现状。"
So, this is an astounding table.	这是一张让人吃惊的图表,
That is the state-of-the-art today in diagnosing cancer.	这就是今天最先进的癌症诊断。
This is the state-of-the-art and how we do it.	这就是我们用的最先进的技术。
We could do the same in cancer.	对于癌症我们也同样可以这样做。
So, the thing about cancer is that it's a disease of the aged.	癌症是一种老年人的疾病。
It makes no sense, if you think about it.	仔细想想，它没有任何意义。
The Cancer Genome Atlas is coming out now.	癌症基因图谱就要问世了。
The first cancer was done, which was brain cancer.	所做的第一个癌症是脑癌。
So, this is the website of the National Cancer Institute.	这是国家癌症研究院的网站。
It's not in the abstract; it's the interaction with the environment.	它不是抽象的，它与环境相互作用。
The goal is to control cancer.	我们的目标是去控制癌症。
And he was saying: Does he really want to meet another doctor?	而他说，他真想会见另一个医生。
So, about the worst kind of breast cancer you can get.	这里有最糟糕的乳腺癌病例。
And a response is 50 percent shrinkage.	一种反应是50%人的肿瘤缩小了。
It was in her brain, in her lungs, in her liver.	她的脑部、肺脏、肝脏都有癌细胞。
Six months later it's still gone.	六个月后，仍然没有复发。
And so, what do you know, that drug was approved.	你知道，那个药物被批准了。
And we learned something important there.	我们从那也听说了一些重要的事情。
And, again, that's where these new technologies can come in.	也就是这些新技术产生的原因。
The ultimate goal is that you prevent any of these things from happening.	最终目标是防止疾病发生。
We can start to look at different components along this spectrum.	我们就可以看到频谱间的不同组分。
And so, earlier was talked about cross-discipline, about collaboration.	前面谈论过跨学科，谈论了合作。
So, to conclude, we need to get away from reductionist thinking.	结论是我们需要远离简化论的思想。
We need a radically different approach.	我们需要一个完全不同的方法。
And that's not the only thing that bad sound damages.	而且那并不是噪音唯一破坏的
And we're in the business of designing soundscapes.	我们在设计声音范围的一场生意中。
Most of you recognize that immediately.	你们中大多数的人马上就认出了这调
I hope that's going to change over the next few years.	我希望在未来几年有些变化
Don't just bombard them with stuff.	不要仅仅用声音来砌合事物
It took us 33 days, 23 hours and 55 minutes to get there.	用时33天，23个小时55分钟。
Young people would ask the most amazing questions.	年轻人会问到一些最奇妙的问题。
The website worked brilliantly as a two-way street of communication.	网站双向沟通运作的十份不错。
That I'm this uber-endurance guy?	我这有着市区耐力般的家伙？
It does concern you, as well.	是的，这确实会让你感到忧虑
Health to the ocean means health for us.	海洋的健康意味着我们的健康
No ocean, no life support system.	没有海洋，就没有生命维持系统
Most of the oxygen in the atmosphere is generated by the sea.	大气中的氧气绝大多数是由大海产生
You did a great job with the land, the dirt.	你把陆地，泥土部分做的很好
We can go explore the other side of the Hawaiian Islands.	我们能到夏威夷群岛的另一边去探索
How about some X Prizes for ocean exploration?	为海洋探险设立个大奖怎么样？
Just ten years ago I stood on the ice at the North Pole.	十年前我就曾站在北极点的冰面上
The highest concentrations are in red.	红色表示的是密度最高的地区
There are a few oysters in Chesapeake Bay.	切萨皮克湾还长着少量牡蛎
There's still time, but not a lot, to turn things around.	还有时间，但不是很多来使事情好转
Our fate and the ocean's are one.	我们的命运与海洋密不可分
The fly is going to sense this predator.	这个苍蝇会察觉到这个捕食者
It's going to sashay away to live to fly another day.	看似不经已地逃走再活上一天
Now, how does this compare to a fly?	这个跟苍蝇比较起来怎样呢？
We have no idea what they do.	我们也不知道它们用来做什么
And I think that flies are a great model.	我认为苍蝇是一个伟大的模型
And I would propose it's not a fair metric.	我不觉得它是一个公平的指标
And it's a beautifully complex neuron.	它是一个精美复杂的神经元
So here's some other organisms at the similar scale.	这里有类似规模的生物组织
And one idea comes from lessons from chewing crabs.	一个来自于咀嚼螃蟹的想法
Crab chewing is actually really fascinating.	蟹咀的咀嚼行为其实真的令人着迷
Is there any evidence that flies do this?	是否有任何证据表明苍蝇这样做吗？
You can measure the aerodynamic forces it's creating.	你可以测量它产生的空气动力
It's part of their visual guidance system.	这是它的视觉导航系统的一部分
It's like a Noah's Ark. It's like an archive.	好比诺亚方舟，好比一个档案馆。
Now, this is of course a topic of philosophical debate for centuries.	当然，这是数百年哲学辩论的题目。
We can ask a very concrete question.	我们可以提出非常具体的问题。
"Can the brain build such a perception?"	"大脑能建立这样一个知觉吗？"
But there are about a million of them.	只不过，大脑皮层有上百万块。
You stimulate it; it produces a symphony.	你刺激它；大脑就奏出交响乐。
It's a symphony of your universe, your reality.	是你的宇宙，你的现实的交响乐。
They choose very carefully who they connect with.	神经元挑选连接对象非常谨慎。
And here we're coiling them up.	这里，我们把它们缠绕在一起。
It's the same in the forest. Every pine tree is different.	如同在森林中。每棵松树都不同。
And you may have more or less neurons.	你可能有或多或少的神经元。
We can look at all 10 million synapses now.	现在我们可以看看这一千万突触。
But the pattern of how the circuitry is designed does not.	但是电路设计的模式没有变化。
So, we have the mathematics to make neurons come alive.	我们又让神经元活过来的数学。
And we've got the mathematics to describe this process.	我们有数学工具描述这一过程。
But what you do need is a very big computer.	不过你得要一个非常大的计算机。
So you need 10,000 laptops.	所以得要一万台笔记本电脑。
So now we have this Blue Gene supercomputer.	所以我们有蓝色基因超级计算机。
But we can ask, "Where is the rose?"	不过我们可以问，"玫瑰在哪里？"
Ultimately it's got to be there if we stimulated it with it.	如果我们刺激它，最终它会在那里。
And then when we zoomed into this, it's like a veritable universe.	当我们放大的时候，确实像个宇宙。
I didn't like nuclear bomb-propelled spaceships.	我不喜欢原子弹推进宇宙飞船。
Here was version two: 2,000 bombs.	这是版本二，两千个核弹。
The Air Force started to build smaller models and actually started doing this.	空军方面确实开始建造小版本飞船。
That's my dad in the sport coat there holding the briefcase.	穿休闲装，拎着公文包的就是我爸。
And now we have ground hazard assessments when you have a blow-up on the pad.	这是地面危害评估发射台上爆炸。
Look at the little guys there outside the vehicle.	注意这个小人，在飞船外。
Maybe keep a few little bombs of plutonium on the side.	可能还保存了一些核弹也说不定。
So that's the state we're at: it's not very good.	这就是目前的状况。不太妙。
This is the patent.	这个就是他当时申请的专利。
And that's problematic in terms of the rollout of vaccines.	这就给疫苗的普及带来很多问题。
Now, this is a specimen of the Nanopatch.	这是纳米贴片的一个样品。
And indeed we can make a reuse of the applicator itself.	但是我们可以重复使用辅助器。
And we see this kind of data.	我们会看到这样一种情况，
In the world of vaccines, what does that mean?	对疫苗来说这意味着什么？
The world of vaccines is getting better.	当今疫苗领域在不断发展进步，
It's a gambler's game even today.	它在今天看来依然是一场赌博游戏。
So, we had to do that gamble.	我们也需要做这样的赌博。
We waited a month, and this is what we found out.	我们等了一个月，这是我们发现的。
That's a real fresh opportunity.	这意味着一个全新的机会。
And certainly in the world of vaccines that can be important.	这在疫苗领域中当然是非常重要的。
Now, the stakes are very high.	目前，疫苗的失效率很高。
That's an important improvement.	这是一个非常重要的改进。
We're delighted about it as well.	我们对这一改进也非常激动。
Now, doing this kind of work is not easy.	做这样的一项事业不容易，
I'll tell you a little bit about irrational behavior.	今天我想谈谈非理性行为。
So I decided to try and write something more fun.	所以我决定写一些较好玩的东西。
So I wrote a book on my research.	于是我写了一本关于我的研究的书。
What do you see the color that top arrow is pointing to?	你见到上方箭头指着的是什么颜色？
I can cover the rest of the cube up.	我可以把方块的其他部分盖住，
There is no way for us not to see this illusion.	我们没有办法不受这个错觉影响。
I want you to think about illusion as a metaphor.	我想大家把视觉错觉看成一个比喻。
And we are evolutionarily designed to do vision.	人类的进化使我们长于视力。
Right? How much do you care about people?	对不对？你有多关心其他人？
Germany is on the left. And Austria is on the right.	德国在左方，但奥地利却在右方；
The Netherlands is on the left. And Belgium is on the right.	荷兰在左方，而比利时就在右方；
So what are they doing?	那究竟这些国家做了什么？
Now think about what this means.	让我们想想，这告诉我们什么？
Very, very hard to think that you will influence us.	要相信它们会影响我们非常困难。
It's difficult and it's complex.	因为这个决定既困难又复杂。
And they presented to them a case study of a patient.	告诉他们一个病人的个案。
He's been suffering from a right hip pain for a while.	右髖骨已经疼了一段时期。
All these medications, nothing seems to be working.	所有药物似乎都没有效果，
You did not try ibuprofen.	你还没有试ibuprofen。
Very good for the physicians.	我们都很高兴医生这样做。
A print subscription for 125.	以一百二十五元订阅印刷版；
And I tried to figure out what were they thinking.	我想知道他们是怎样想的。
I took this and I gave it to 100 MIT students.	我把广告给一百个MIT个学生看，
Thankfully nobody wanted the dominated option.	没有人选择主流的印刷版，
That means our students can read.	那显示我们学生的阅读能力还不错。
And the least popular became the most popular.	而最不受欢迎的却变成最受欢迎。
So I decided to do this experiment with people.	于是我决定找人做这个实验。
We have this view of ourselves, of others.	我们也是这样看待自己和其他人。
And one of the issues is capacity.	还有一个问题是容量问题．
Then there's another issue that you're all aware of.	还有一个大家都知道的问题．
And security is another issue.	数据的安全性是另一个问题．
And light is part of the electromagnetic spectrum.	而光是电磁波谱中的一部分．
And in the middle there, we have this visible light spectrum.	中间这里，我们有可见光区域．
So it's inherently safe to use.	所以光本身就是安全可用的．
So we have the infrastructure there.	所以我们已经有了基础设施在那．
Look at the ceiling, you see all these light bulbs.	看屋顶上，你看那些灯泡．
An LED is a semiconductor. It's an electronic device.	LED是个半导体，是个电子器件．
And it has a very nice acute property.	它有一个特别好的敏锐的性能．
What we've done is we have also developed a demonstrator.	我们还研发了一个演示仪器．
And what we have here is no ordinary desk lamp.	这里放着的是一个普通的台灯．
Put your book beneath it and you can read.	把你的书放在下面，就能阅读，
This is a smart academic doing a little bit of tricks here."	这是聪明的学者用了一点小诡计．＂
And if you look at the light, it is illuminating as you would expect.	如果你看着这灯，它还是那么亮．
And you are still able to transmit data -- that's possible.	这样它还是可以传输数据．
It has a flashlight, an LED flashlight.	它有一个闪光灯，那是个LED灯．
And there's only data where there is light.	只有在有光的地方才能看到数据．
And they use light to illuminate space down there.	它们用光来照亮底下的空间．
Traffic lights can communicate to the car and so on.	而且信号灯也能和车辆进行沟通．
Online life. So that is a vision, I think, that is possible.	线上生活．我想这个设想是可行的．
And that moved us to the next level.	这把我们推进到下一个水平
And we've seen many seminal moments.	我们也亲历了更多的重要时刻
I thought I'd take a moment to tell you what a genome is.	这会儿我先来说一下基因组是什么
So, I will tell you right off of the bat.	所以我将马上直截了当的告诉你
And one thing that is common to all of life is DNA.	DNA是所有生命体都共有的东西
There is a historical archive.	这份存在于你基因组中的历史档案
We are starting to understand that.	我们现在还仅仅是开始了解基因组
then you can go about the process of trying to fix it and figure it out.	然后你才可以全面理解并着手修复它
So, we are now able to read genomes.	现在,技术使我们能够读出基因组
What does a genome look like?	那到底基因组是什么样的呢?
We can understand functionality. This is really important.	我们能够理解功能,这是真正重要的
And this is extremely profound.	这是具有非常大的深远意义
But there's an ecosystem here.	可是这里存在一个生态系统
And then we understand what is terroir.	那是我们明白了什么是沃土
I told you I'm going to make some of you puke.	我说过我会让你们中的一些人呕吐
They're here. They're in the universe.	他们原本就存在于这个宇宙之中
There are microbes, you know -- go back to yeast.	有各种微生物，我们回到酵母
They have interest sniffing each other, chasing squirrels.	它们喜欢相互嗅探，追逐松鼠。
Rear end, owner. Rear end wins.	屁股，主人——屁股赢了。
We don't take the dog's point of view into account.	我们不考虑狗是怎么想的。
Every time he jumps up, he gets all sorts of abuse.	每次它跳起来，它都会受到责骂。
And they take this stuff seriously.	但是狗们把这个看的非常重要。
Dogs, horses and humans -- these are the three species which are so abused in life.	狗，马和人——这是三个受虐物种。
And then we give him a reason for sitting.	然后我们给它一个坐下的理由。
That will then become a reward for the lower-frequency behavior.	这是让狗做这个低频行为的奖励。
People here get very confused about what a punishment is.	人们对什么是惩罚很糊涂。
They think a punishment is something nasty.	他们认为惩罚必须非常暴力。
I bet a lot of you do, right?	我打赌你也是这样想的，对吗？
And he was kept there by the owner's calm insistence.	狗主人命令狗保持不能动，
You see, the punishment was working.	你看，惩罚正在发挥作用。
If she did, she would have got bitten.	如果她大声命令，狗就可能咬她。
How are you going to reprimand a grizzly bear?	你准备怎样去惩戒一只灰熊？
We want a better way.	我们想要一个更好的方法。
If he had kicked a dog, I would have punched him out.	如果他踢了一只狗，我会给他一拳。
These relationship skills are so easy.	这些人际关系的技巧非常简单。
And then, a little behavior problem comes up.	接下来行为问题就出现了。
No different from the dog barking.	跟狗长大了开始叫没什么不同。
That is such a powerful training technique.	这是一个非常强大的训练技巧。
Relationships -- how do you negotiate?	人际关系——你如何沟通？
You know, how to prepare you for your first relationship?	你该怎么准备你的第一段感情？
Almost anything can happen within them.	几乎所有的事都能在那里发生
Our mandate is media, and particularly the book."	我们管的是媒介，尤其是书
So what you're seeing now is actually the design of the building.	所以你现在看到的其实是建筑的设计
And so we proposed what's at the lower diagram.	所以我们提出了下面的这个图
That's as it was given to us in all of its clarity and glory.	和我们拿到它时一样的色彩鲜艳
OK? We just sized -- no, really, I mean that, literally.	我们只是噢，我说真的，表面上看
The things on the -- on the left-hand side of the diagram, those are the boxes.	左边这些就像图上的，是盒子
We sized them into five compartments.	我们把他们放进了五个部分
We pushed them around on the site to make very literal contextual relationships.	我们就这样建造非常清楚的上下关系
The reading room should be able to see the water.	从阅览室里可以看到下面的水
So, now I'm going to take you on a tour of the building.	现在，我将带你们领略一下这个建筑
So it's an unusual building for a public library, obviously.	这是个很特别的公共图书馆很显然
This is actually a program that we invented with the library.	这其实是我们发明的一个空间
Now we're moving up into what we call the mixing chamber.	现在我们往上这是一个混合区
You'll have to tell me if I'm going too fast for you.	如果我走得太快，你们可以提出
I'm running out of time, so I'm actually going to stop.	我快没时间了，所以就此打住
So, it's very indiscernible, but it's actually a continuous stair stepping.	看不清但实际上它是不断在上升
It allows you to, on one city block, go up one full floor, so that it's on a continuum.	让你在一层楼不断连续地向上
Any portion around the theater actually can be opened discretely.	其实周围的每一部分都可以秘密打开
Again, remove the light enclosure; keep the acoustic enclosure.	一样的，去掉灯光，保留声音
I'm going to show now the last project.	现在我将要展示最后一件作品
They inverted the whole idea of development.	他们颠覆了整个发展的思路
We had to operate within the 100-year floodplain.	必须建造在100年漫滩的范围内
Underneath the bathtub are the city's main power lines.	这块地下面有城市的主要电线
And now we're going to add 1.1 million square feet.	现在我们将扩建1100万平方英尺
In fact -- and you know this -- this is called the Time Warner building.	事实上，就像时代华纳大楼
As we're building the cores, we build the contemporary art museum at grade.	同时也建造当代艺术博物馆
That allows us to have incredible efficiency and cost efficiency.	这会使得我们非常高效，也很省钱
What, to power -- for lighting and stuff?	然后呢，拿来发电什么的吗？
The book had three, yours had four.	书里有三个，你的有四个。
And what did you make the windmill out of?	你用什么来做这个风车的？
And so, that lit a light for the house? How many lights?	那，够家里的电灯用吗？多少盏灯？
WK: Four bulbs and two radios.	WK:四个灯泡，还有两台收音机。
So this one would have to be bigger?	那新建的这个会更大些吗？
So, I wanted to do something special today.	那么，我今天想做点特别的事。
Because it gets into all sorts of crazy realms.	因为它进入了一种疯狂的境界。
I'm not going to hurt you. Don't worry.	我不会伤害你们。别担心。
And it's like your eyes start straining to see themselves.	就像你的眼睛开始练习看着自己。
It's kind of cool. Songwriters can sort of get away with murder.	有点酷。歌曲作者可以逃脱谋杀。
I want to talk to you briefly about perception.	我想简单的和你们谈谈关于感知。
What about bigger numbers?	更"大"的数字会怎么样呢？
And Nabokov was himself synesthetic.	作者纳博科夫本身就是有联觉的
Another example: a little bit more mathematical.	另一个例子稍微有一点数学化了。
Let's go back to the questions I posed you a moment ago.	让我们回到我之前提出的问题上来
And in the right-hand corner, you don't have to calculate anything.	在右下角你不需要任何计算
Easy when you know how.	当你知道怎么做，问题就容易了。
The second question was an Icelandic word.	第二个问题是一个冰岛单词。
So let me narrow the choices down to two.	那么我把问题缩减成两个。
And it actually means sad.	这个词实际意思是悲伤的。
The population explosion was unstoppable.	"人口爆炸"危机是无法阻止的。
Per-capita food production is up by a third.	人均食物生产增加了三分之一。
And that's because they're both designed to fit the human hand.	因为它们两者设计都是适用于人手。
It just tells you they were both designed to fit the human hand.	这说明他们两者都适用于人手。
There was no progress, no innovation.	所谓没有进步，没有创新。
It's an extraordinary phenomenon, but it's true.	这是个特别的现象，但这是事实。
They've all been combined together in this technology.	所有思想相互结合的科技。
How does evolution do cumulative, combinatorial things?	进化是怎样累积和组合的呢？
One goes extinct for the other to survive.	1个会灭绝，另一个则生存下来。
There's no exchange of ideas between them.	在它们之间没有交换思想。
And why does exchange raise living standards?	那么为什么交换会提高生活水准？
So the gains from trade are only going to grow.	这种贸易互惠变得更实质。
We call that poverty these days.	我们称那些日子还很贫穷。
That's what we've achieved as a species.	也是我们人类进步的方式。
Louis XIV had a lot of people working for him.	路易十四世拥有很多侍从。
Now, you do get other animals working for each other too.	现在，其他动物也彼此协同工作。
But I've got no evidence for that.	但我还没有例证加以说明。
And so it looks like they probably had linguistic skills.	尼安德特人可能有语言技能。
It looks like the females were cooperative hunters with the men.	这就好比女性和男性一起协同狩猎。
They're always made from local chert.	它们都是当地黑燧石制成的。
An example is Tasmania.	塔斯马尼亚岛就是个例子。
But who knows how to make a computer mouse?	但是谁知道怎样生产出鼠标吗？
There is nobody on the planet who knows how to make a computer mouse.	地球上没人知道怎样生产出鼠标。
He just knows how to run a company.	他仅知道怎样运作一个公司。
So we've created something called the collective brain.	所以我们创造了协同合作的大脑。
We're just the nodes in the network.	我们只是这脑网络上的交点。
However, bad things happen.	尽管如此，坏事情也会发生。
There will be wars; there will be depressions; there will be natural disasters.	例如战争，经济萧条，自然灾难。
They just don't do that in that industry.	整个行业里没有人去做这件事
And there's an hour's worth of our cups.	一小时内用掉的纸杯量就会是这么大
The number is 2.3 million Americans were incarcerated in 2005.	2005年有230万美国人在押
More than 400,000 people die in the United States every year from smoking cigarettes.	每年有超过40万美国人死于吸烟
And do you remember the response?	你们还记得我们当时的反应吗？
This is an image I've made out of lots and lots of Vicodin.	这幅作品里是很多很多的维柯丁
I'm not pointing the finger at America in a blaming way.	我并不是在指责或责怪美国
I'm simply saying, this is who we are right now.	我只是在说我们现在就是这个样子的
Here's the section on the all-important emergency stop switch.	这部分是所有重要的紧急开关。
And then we did respiratory syncytial virus.	然后我们又用呼吸道合胞病毒。
How do I know which rhinovirus I have?	我怎么知道我有哪种鼻病毒？
But that's, again, shooting fish in a barrel, you know, right?	但这又是瓮中捉鳖，对吧？
You can't control real people, as you probably know.	你控制不了人，就象你所知道的。
You have no idea what walks in through the door.	你不知道什么会从那个门进来，
So that's great, but again, cheap shot, right?	很好，这又是划算的作法，对吧？
So, how about the people who walk in off the street?	走过这条街的人会怎么样？
The genetic relationships are very close there. That's a lot of fun.	有很强的遗传关联，非常有趣。
We made a chip that has every known virus ever discovered on it.	芯片上有每一个发现的已知病毒。
So let's do something a little bit harder.	让我们来做困难点的事吧。
We put the beeper in the clinic.	我们把蜂鸣器放在诊所里。
A normal lung is all sort of dark and black here.	正常的肺这都是暗的和黑的，
And on day six, they basically threw in the towel.	第六天，他们基本放弃了。
And so, what did they test her for?	所以，为什么进行这些检测？
And basically on hospital day eight, that's when they called us.	在医院第8天，他们叫我们去了。
In fact, it's not even really sequenced that much.	实际上都没有对它进行过大段测序，
There's almost no epidemiology or studies on it.	对它几乎也没有流行病学的研究。
What is that? It's an antiviral defense enzyme.	它是什么？它是一种抗病毒防御酶。
OK, that's pretty wild. What is it?	有点太疯狂了。它是什么？
So, we clone the whole virus.	所以我们克隆了整个病毒。
These guys really do have this virus.	这些人的确都有这个病毒。
Does this virus cause prostate cancer?	这种病毒导致前列腺癌吗？
Is it a link to oncogenesis? I don't know.	它与肿瘤的发生有关吗？我不知道。
Is it the case that these guys are just more susceptible to viruses?	是因为这些人对病毒敏感吗？
That's where we're at.	这就是现在我们所知道的。
The electricity powering the lights in this theater was generated just moments ago.	这个会场的照明用电是刚刚发出的。
A giant battery could.	不过巨型电池可以做到这点。
Now let's get started.	现在我们开始今天的内容。
Admittedly, I've left out a few details.	不可否认，我放过了一些细节。
We need to think about the problem differently.	我们需要换一种方式思考问题。
I'll show you how.	我将告诉你们这是如何实现的。
So now, how to choose the metals?	所以，现在，如何选择金属？
So what to do next?	那么下一步我们要做什么？
Now do I hire seasoned professionals?	我会去雇用经验丰富的专业人士吗？
So this is the evolution of the liquid metal battery.	这就是液态金属电池的演变。
So what have we learned from all this?	所以我们从中都学到了什么？
So what have we learned from all this?	那么我们从这些经历中学到什么呢？
Has anyone ever been to Aspen, Colorado?	有人去过科罗拉多的阿斯彭么？
It's not a joke yet; those aren't the jokes.	现在还不是开玩笑,这不是玩笑。
What we've built isn't unique.	我们制作的这个机器本身并不独特。
But the actual robot is really only half the story.	但是，机器人只是故事的一半。
It's an underwater world we're all exploring together.	水下的世界我们一起去探索发现。
I've always wanted to be a cyborg.	我一直想成为一个半机械人。
But that's not what I want to talk about today.	但是这不是我今天要谈论的话题。
From that point on, everything else was pretty much downhill.	从那以后，一切都江河日下了。
I'm just going to pop in at the start of the game.	我将要从最开端来进入这个游戏，
Now, we actually play through many generations here, at the cellular scale.	我们可以在细胞层面经历好多代。
OK, we got him. Now we get a meal.	嗯，我们打败了它。现在我们开吃。
OK, now I'll put some hands on it.	好，现在我要为它加上几只手。
OK, so here I've basically thrown together a little creature.	嗯，这样我就拼装好了一个小生物。
how it might show emotions, how it might fight.	让它表达情感，让它打斗。
So it's acting with its two mouths there.	让让它的两个嘴巴动起来。
So this is the planet that we've been playing on up to this point in the game.	这就是我们在玩游戏时所在的星球。
Now over time, this is actually going to heat up the planet.	渐渐地，星球的温度提高了。
Let's fly to another one.	让我们跳到另外一个上来。
So this planet actually has some life on it.	这个星球上其实有一些生物。
Here it is, some indigenous life down here.	看，有些土生土长的生物。
You see, now they've actually gone to tribal dynamics.	瞧，现在它们开始组成部落。
At first they're a little freaked out.	一开始，它们有点吓坏了。
But we basically want a diversity of activities the players can play through this.	我们希望玩家可以经历不同的活动。
So we're flying over here to what looks like a black hole.	我们可以飞到这里看看黑洞。
But we also have stars and things as well.	我们还有星星和其他的东西。
So I want you to pay attention to what you're doing right now.	现在请大家专心在自己的身上
When we think about communication, we think about interactions.	当我们想到沟通，我们就想到互动
What's mine communicating to you?	我的身体又是在向你传达什么?
So what nonverbals am I talking about?	所以究竟我说的是怎样的非语言?
So in the animal kingdom, they are about expanding.	在动物王国里，它们和扩张有关
So the arms up in the V, the chin is slightly lifted.	双臂呈V字型朝上，下巴微微抬起
We do the opposite of them.	我们做和他们正相反的事情
When they sit down, they're sort of spread out.	当他们坐下的时候，身体会展开
So women are much more likely to do this kind of thing than men.	女人比男人更容易出现这种状况
So business schools have been struggling with this gender grade gap.	所以商学院一直以来都为此伤脑筋
There's some evidence that they do.	这里确实有些证据可以表明
They actually feel that they're going to win even at games of chance.	就连在赌注里也觉得他们会赢
They also tend to be able to think more abstractly.	他们也倾向于能够抽象地思考
But really, power is also about how you react to stress.	但力量其实是在于你如何应对压力
This one has been dubbed the "Wonder Woman" by the media.	这个被媒体取名为"神力女超人"
So you're folding up, you're making yourself small.	你双手交叉，试着让自己变小一点
For numerous reasons, no, no, no, don't do that.	不管什么原因，不不，千万别这么做
It's five minutes long. They are being recorded.	为时五分钟。所有都会被记录下来
So this really spikes your cortisol.	这可以大大激发你的可的松
We then have these coders look at these tapes, four of them.	接着我们得出下列四种结果
We also evaluate these people much more positively overall."	我们也评量这群人整体而言更正面
It's about the presence that they're bringing to the speech.	而是他们在演讲中带出来的存在感
No effect on those things. This is what's affected.	这些全都无关。有影响的是
They bring their ideas, but as themselves, with no, you know, residue over them.	他们的想法，当他们心里没有芥蒂
I was thrown out of a car, rolled several times.	我整个人飞出车外，滚了好几翻
You're going to stay, and this is what you're going to do.	你会留下，你将会留下来了。
You're going to do every talk that you ever get asked to do.	你被要求的每个演讲你都得照办
And the second was, she is supposed to be here!	第二个想法是，她应该在这里!
Like, she can fake it, she can become it.	她可以假装，一直到她成功为止。
Tiny tweaks can lead to big changes.	小小的调整可以有大大的改变
Get your testosterone up. Get your cortisol down.	提升你的睪丸铜，降低你的可的松
What's in it for the ant?	那里对于蚂蚁而言有什么呢？
So there's nothing in it for the ant.	所以对于蚂蚁来说，那里一无所有
Well, it's ideas -- not worms -- that hijack our brains.	劫持我们大脑的，是思想，不是虫子
Most people have.	"大部分人"都已经被劫持了
Freedom, if you're from New Hampshire.	自由--如果你来自新罕布什尔
These are just a few of the ideas that are to die for.	这只是一小部分使人献身的思想
This is unthinking engineering.	这是未经思考的工程设计。
Hosts work hard to spread these ideas to others.	寄主努力传播思想给他人。
This is what our summum bonum is.	此乃我们的最高价值之所在
And no other species does anything at all like it.	而且没有任何其他物种这么做
Now, what theories do we want to use to look at this?	我们用什么理论来探查它呢？
And that's what a meme is. It's an information packet with attitude.	这也就是模因；有态度的一包信息
If they are, words are memes that can be pronounced.	如果在，单词就是可以发音的模因
Remember the Shakers? Gift to be simple?	还记得震教徒吗？天赋简朴？
And, of course, they're basically extinct now.	当然了，他们基本上已经灭绝了。
But in fact that's not why they went extinct.	事实上，这不是他们消失的原因。
And so they had a ready supply of converts.	所以他们有个皈依信徒的供应链。
These memes are spreading around the world and they are wiping out whole cultures.	模因正遍及世界整个儿地消灭文化
If you've had a friend who's died of AIDS, then you hate HIV.	若朋友死于艾滋病，你会恨HIV
That will encourage the spread of relatively benign mutations of the most toxic varieties.	鼓励毒性最强的变种进行良性的变异
Ladies and gentlemen, the Scottish Ensemble.	女士们先生们，苏格兰乐队
So I went out there, and I auditioned, mainly in rural township locations, right around the country.	我去试镜招人在全国城乡地区招募
And in the last years of the old regime, he would routinely be detailed to go into the township to aggress the community.	以前的时候他常常去镇上骚扰居民
Now you can imagine what this knowledge did to the temperature in the room, the general atmosphere.	你可以想像这会让屋子里气氛如何
So we got some shows off the ground. We started touring them internationally.	我们开始展露头角去世界各地演出
I've got a little experiment I want to try with you.	我想跟你们一个做个小实验
I think we need to sing for our tea.	我觉得我们应该在下午茶唱歌
There I am like a bloody windmill again, you see.	看见了没我又像个疯狂的风车了
Now we're going to put that in the context of the music.	现在我们讲把它放入音乐中
So I decided to create a platform for that potential.	所以我决定为这潜质提供一个平台
It's going to be Britain's first ever national disabled orchestra.	这将是英国第一个残疾人乐团
Just me and four astonishingly gifted disabled musicians.	我和四个极具天赋的残疾人音乐家
No one's listening. No one's trusting.	没有人在听没有人信任其他人
And I was born without my left hand -- right hand.	我生下来就没有左手－右手
There's so much joy and things I could get from playing an instrument and performing.	弹奏和表演对我来说无比有趣
Paraorchestra is the name of that project.	帕拉乐队就是这个项目的名字
You can imagine, the musicians were disconsolate.	可以想像，音乐家们很伤心
Haydn remonstrated with the prince, but to no avail.	海登向王子抗议，但是没用
And we're going to play just the very tail end of this symphony now.	下面我们将演奏这首交响曲的结尾
And you'll see the orchestra in a kind of sullen revolt.	你能感受到一种阴郁的反抗
I had started a bakery with 20 unwed mothers.	我和20个未婚妈妈开了个面包店
They work in government offices. They're drivers.	他们为政府工作，他们是司机
The question, though, is not "Why can't we?"	但问题的关键，不是为什么我们不能
Distribution is a nightmare, but not impossible.	想要分发是一个噩梦，但不是不可能
It's the largest company in Tanzania.	它也是坦桑尼亚最大的工厂
We hope to have seven million at the end of next year.	我们希望明年底产量能达到7百万
First, she talked about comfort, status, beauty.	首先她谈到舒适，地位，美观
Only then did she talk about saving your children's lives.	然后她说到可以挽救小孩的性命
Brotherly tempers started to get strained.	三兄弟的脾气开始变得冒火。
They had one camel left over.	他们最后剩下了一只骆驼。
They gave it back to the wise old woman.	他们又把它还给了聪明的老妇人。
It may be one of our most ancient human heritages.	很可能是我们最早的人类遗产之一。
Let me give you just a story, an example.	让我给你们讲一个故事，一个例子。
So how do they deal with their differences?	那么他们怎么处理争端呢？
That system, I call the "third side."	这个系统，我将它称为"第三方"。
And we can play an incredibly constructive role.	我们可以起到非常有建设性的作用。
And so the third side reminds us of that.	所以第三方提醒了我们这一点。
Okay, so the great majority of us.	好的，我们中很大一部分人。
Why do we pay so much attention to this conflict?	为什么我们要这样关注中东问题呢？
Stories are what we use to transmit knowledge.	故事被我们用来传递知识。
What's the origin story of the Middle East?	那么中东的故事源头又是什么呢？
That man, of course, was Abraham.	那个男人，当然就是亚伯拉罕。
And what he stood for was unity, the unity of the family.	他主张团结，家庭的团结。
Now how would you -- now think about that for a moment.	那么你会——那么再想一想
Today we face the scourge of terrorism.	今天我们面临着恐怖主义的危害。
What's the opposite of terrorism?	那么恐怖主义的反面是什么？
You retrace the footsteps of Abraham.	你重新去绘制亚伯拉罕之路。
Because walking has a real power.	因为行走具有真正的力量。
Who fights while they walk?	谁会在走路的时候打起来呢？
How many of you have ever had that experience?	你们有多少人有过这样的经历？
That's the essence of the Abraham path.	这就是亚伯拉罕之路的精华。
He's alive; he's a living presence.	他还活着，他依然在那里。
It's an amazing experience.	这是很令人难以置信的经历。
That's the potential of the Abraham path.	这就是亚伯拉罕之路的力量。
The potential is basically to change the game.	其潜力本质上改变了这个游戏。
Let me just show you one thing.	让我给你们展示一样东西，
It's not easy, of course, but it's possible.	当然，这并不容易，但这是可能的。
It could be done anywhere.	在任何地方我们都可以做到。
It depends on us taking the third side.	取决于我们扮演的第三方角色。
That's walking Abraham's path.	这样就走上了亚伯拉罕之路。
So let me just leave you with three things.	那么，让我留给你们三样东西。
One is, the secret to peace is the third side.	第一，和平的秘密在于第三方。
The idea of eliminating poverty is a great goal.	"消除贫困"是一个伟大的目标。
I'll leave that to others.	我把这些东西留给别人去用吧。
Always a good start, no money.	真是光脚的不怕穿鞋的，有前途！
This morning before you came, who could have had a wash using a shower?	今天早上出门前，有谁可以冲澡？
You and your kids are fine.	你们和你们孩子会没事儿的。
You can't hear as well for the rest of your life.	你会失聪，而且是终身失聪。
They're actually about improving houses.	这些项目其实是为改善住房条件。
Why do we have to do this work?	我们干嘛非要做这项工作？
Why are the houses in such poor condition?	这些房子的条件为啥如此糟糕？
Things wear out.	什么东西坏了，不能用了，之类的。
They don't work. We have to fix them.	这些东西出了问题，我们就得去修。
They do all aspects of the work.	所有方面的工作都是他们在干。
Our work's always had a focus on health. That's the key.	我们的工作关注健康。这是关键。
The developing world bug trachoma, it causes blindness.	发展中国家的沙眼病能够致盲。
He was loaned to us by a mining company.	一个采矿公司把他借调给我们。
We tested and we reduced the dust.	我们检测后发现灰尘的确减少了。
And finally, you get a good eye.	最终，还你一双明亮的眼睛。
But all of a sudden now there was a second problem.	但是一下子我们有了第二个问题。
And it starts with three people.	这个故事还得从三个人讲起。
And you see how attentive these kids are to these seeds.	你们看这些孩子们对种子多专注呀。
So if you're hungry, get up and eat.	如果你饿了，不妨起来吃一点。
But this is not a Getty image.	但是这不是来自盖特的图片，
Except what about locally?	除了一些关于当地的情况？
So thank you all and I love them.	所以，太感谢你们了，我爱他们。
The greenest class in New York City.	也是纽约市最绿色的课堂。
And that's a true "sí se puede" moment.	这是真正的一切皆有可能的时刻！
And when Henry knows that green is good, so do I.	亨利得知环保是件好事，我也知道。
God, I'm going to run out of time, so I've gotta keep it moving.	演讲快没时间了，我得快一点儿。
I gotta tell you, I'm a protective parent.	其实我是个懂得的保护孩子的家长。
We're also designing coin ponds for the rich and affluent.	我们正在为富人设计玉米田，
Let me tell you something, people.	让我再来给你讲讲吧，观众朋友们。
We take orders now. I'm booking for the spring.	我们开始接受订单，已经排到春天。
All start overage and under-credit.	无需任何原始投入，也无需贷款。
I grow seven kinds of mint in my class.	我在课堂上种了七种薄荷。
So help us go from this to this.	所以它帮我们从这样变成了这样。
It's simple. Share your passion.	其实很简单。只要贡献你的激情。
It's real easy. Go see these two videos, please.	真的很容易。请看看这两段视频。
People, you can all do that.	这些，各位都可以做得到。
Big kids love strawberries and bananas.	大一点的孩子应该喜欢草莓和香蕉。
Nothing works like unconditional love.	没有什么像无条件的爱一样有用
I urge you to do something.	我请各位开始做些什么吧！
I don't care if you're on the left, on the right, up the middle, wherever.	不管跃向左右、向上、或居中
It's about this big, the size of a pacemaker.	它跟一个心脏起搏器的大小差不多
Finally, you go to the emergency room.	最后，你还是被送进了急诊室。
That's the first invention that I wanted to describe.	这就是我所说的第一个发明
That's what we have discovered.	这也正是我们所发现的原理
So here's a picture of what we're doing.	这是一张我们所做的图片。
This is what an aura looks like.	这就是预兆--那层光晕的样子
Here we have our device in which we put in a frame.	设备里面有我们设计好支架
And some of the sponsors of this TED meeting are such organizations.	对于所有参加TED会议的赞助商
That is the first wish.	而这就是我的第一个愿望。
And that's how I'll use my 100,000-dollar prize money.	这就是我利用这10万元奖金的方法
And that is one of the ideas.	而这就是我其中的一个想法。
And, so there, that's the end of all my wishes.	至此，我所有的愿望已经分享完毕。
There is even some from the U.S.	甚至有一部分是来自美国的
We are realizing that this is true.	我们渐渐意识到这是正确的
There is so much information; what do you do?	有这么多的信息，你要怎么做呢？
What we are looking at is the first three hours.	我们在头三个小时所注意到的
How do we deal with that information that is coming in?	我们如何处理那些流进的信息呢？
You can't understand what is actually happening.	你不可能知道到底正在发生什么事情
And we have a small team who is working on this.	我们有一个小团队做这方面的工作
It's coming from places that you wouldn't expect.	来自一些你意想不到的地方
From young, smart developers.	来自一群年轻有为的开发者
Seemed to be the passion today.	那似乎是我今天要跟你分享的主题。
Actually, it's not about death.	但事实上，我将分享的与死亡无关。
Handwriting is a disappearing art.	书写这门艺术正渐渐地消失。
I plan to publish my own notebook.	我亦计画出版自己的笔记。
Has anyone here ever been to school?	在座的各位有没有人上过学？
In fact, this dream is actually being realized.	实际上，这一梦想正在实现。
And we've also been working with a number of other organizations.	此外我们还与其他一些组织合作。
How much would it cost in a bookstore?	如果在书店里它会值多少钱？
What's really making all of this happen?	到底是什么让这一切发生？
Remember we took the book, tore the pages out?	大家记得我们撕开了书页，对吧？
It's no wonder that everybody's getting into it, right?	这样大家就都能理解它，对不对？
Even the three wise men.	即使是古希腊三智者都能弄懂。
How do we protect it into the future?	我们如何保护它们，使之流传久远？
So that could be a problem.	这样可能就带来一个问题。
And so that isn't very hard.	因此，这一条不很难理解。
So that's certainly part of it.	因此教育肯定是不可或缺的。
But it was really through teaching.	但确确实实是通过教而学。
We're interested in perfect color uniformity.	我们希望有完美的色彩还原。
You're not part of our strategic plan."	你不在我们的战略规划里。"
And that's why scale counts.	这就是规模的重要性之所在。
And this has been in the press a great deal.	这件事媒体业报道很多次了。
It gets distributed to the school system like a textbook.	就像课本一样，发行到学校。
And we have a situation today which is incredible.	我们现在的处境就有点匪夷所思。
And we've been going steadily downhill.	我们一直以来都是在走下坡路。
That's why a lot of our people are more or less living in Taiwan right now.	所以现在我们还有很多人住在台湾。
That's the machine we showed in Tunis.	这就是我们在突尼斯展示的电脑，
And it's something that we didn't think was possible.	原来我们也曾以为这些都不可能呢。
Now, I'm going to pass this around.	现在我把这个机器往下传一下。
The working one is at MIT.	能够真正使用的原型在MIT呢。
This is where when you go outside, it's in black and white.	这样可以在户外，以黑白模式显示。
Set it up this way and it's a television set.	这样放置，它就成了一台电视机。
So I can't quite name them.	因此还不能说他们肯定能。
It's the federal government in each case.	每个案例所涉及的都是中央政府。
Well, guess what, we're not.	知道吗？我们确实做不到。
If it comes out six months late, so what?	假如它晚了半年才发布，那又怎样？
That's a pretty soft landing. Thank you.	这是一个漂亮的软着陆。谢谢各位。
So what's a good definition for cyborg?	所以什么是半机器人的定义呢？
So let's look at the concept of traditional anthropology.	所以让我们看看传统的人类学观点。
They're clicking on things and staring at screens."	他们点击着东西，关注着荧屏。"
Every single browser tab gives you a different type of time.	每个网页都给你一个不同的时间轴。
So we have this thing called ambient intimacy.	所以我们把这个东西称为亲密环境。
And so there are some psychological effects that happen with this.	这也会随之带来一些心理影响。
It actually looks very organic.	它其实看上去是有机化的。
And it's not that machines are taking over.	这并不是指机器主宰了我们；
So that's why I study cyborg anthropology.	这就是我研究半机器人类学的原因。
It can go on a long time.	有时青春期会持续很久很久。
You can think of it a bit like pruning a rosebush.	你可以把它当成是修剪盆栽
So you don't have to ask any of these guys.	所以你不用去问他们中的任何一人。
So that's what we're interested in looking at in my lab.	这就是我的实验室所感兴趣的事。
This is the same set of shelves from his point of view.	从他的角度看，这是同样的架子。
So imagine he tells you to move the top truck left.	假设他叫你去把上面的火车往左移。
So we sometimes laugh about teenagers.	所以我们有时会讽刺青少年。
Is it something we've invented recently in the West?"	是西方国家近几年才发现的吗？"
It gives you the kick out of taking risks.	它让你在冒险中产生快感。
It's a fantastic opportunity for learning and creativity.	是学习和培养创新的绝好时机。
Here's the go-kart that we built together.	这里是我们一起做的卡丁车。
But my dad didn't get the kind of robot he wanted, either.	但我爸没得到他想要的那种机器人，
I've been studying robots ever since.	从那时起我一直研究机器人。
He said, "Is the robot real?"	他说，"机器人是真的吗？"
So we got one of these robots.	我们拿到这些机器人中的一个。
Then what we do is, we increase the velocity a little bit.	接下来我们做的是，稍微提高速率。
And now, I have a daughter, named Odessa.	现在，我有了一个女儿，叫敖德萨。
I wish she could meet my dad.	我多希望她能够见到我爸爸。
Robots are the most human of our machines.	机器人是我们这些机械中最像人的。
The Indian family said, no way!	印度的家庭都说:绝对不行！
That for me is successful legacy.	我觉得这是一个成功的遗传
Our friends think we're mad.	我们的朋友认为我们疯掉,
What do we mean by beyond ourselves?	那么超越我们是指什么呢?
How, you may ask?	你可能会问，那应怎样做呢?
History as an imaging tool?	历史作为一个幻想的工具?
Go tell Facebook to figure that out!	告诉面谱网去弄清楚怎么回事吧!
I came here today to talk about what's wrong with our food system.	我要讲的是我们食物体系的问题。
I discovered the dark side of the industrialized food system.	我发现了工业化食品体系的阴暗面。
First, there's genetically engineered seeds and organisms.	首先谈谈转基因种子和转基因生物。
The seeds are then planted, then grown.	然后这些种子被种植，生长。
And most folks don't even know they exist.	多数人甚至不知道它们的存在。
And so for that, he's called crazy by the system.	因此从体系的角度看，他很疯狂。
And I've had some incredible warm-up acts.	我已经做了一些极好的准备工作。
I just want to give you a quick overview.	我只是想给你们一个简短的总结。
Let's try and sum things up, shall we?	我们一起来总结一下好不好？
I want to deliberately interfere with his dopamine levels.	我想故意干扰他的多巴胺水平。
All right, now I want to do a little bit of a thing for you ...	好吧，现在我想给大家看点东西……
And she was talking about seven-dimensional, inverted universes.	她谈论的是7维的，反转的时空。
Yup, and his installed base is getting a little bigger.	是的，他占领的面积扩大了一些。
Only if we open enough locker doors.	除非我们打开足够多的储物箱。
This is a home made entirely out of Fruit Roll-Ups.	这是一个完全由水果糖建造的房屋。
And those roll-up cookies coated with white chocolate.	这些水果糖外面覆盖着白巧克力。
No, I said what's your favorite song?	不，我说的是你最喜欢的歌？
No, I said what's your favorite song?	不，我说的是你最喜欢的歌？
I tried to make it a little bit clearer.	我尝试着将它变得更明显一些。
And then I want you to throw it on Jim Young.	然后把飞机扔向JimYoung。
Now I wanted to use this talk to talk about global warming a little bit.	现在我想谈一点全球变暖的事情。
The water level of the lake has started drying up.	湖面的高度由于蒸发开始下降。
A few years later, there's no snow left at all.	几年之后，积雪已经全部融化。
I needed to put it into a context.	我需要把它纳入一个行动中，
And I'm going to tell you that story here in a moment.	我稍后会在这告诉大家这个故事，
So where are the Phoenix Islands?	那么，菲尼克斯群岛在哪里呢？
They've never been dived."	还从来没人来这里潜过水呢。"
The average depths are about 12,000 ft.	平均深度大约一万两千英尺
Seamounts are important for biodiversity.	海底山脉对于生物多样化至关重要。
And the Phoenix Islands is very rich in those seamounts.	而且，菲尼克斯群岛充满海底山脉。
You can see the Islands -- there are eight islands -- that pop out of the water.	你能看到--有八个岛屿突出水面。
The peaks that don't come out of the water are the seamounts.	顶峰没有浮出水面的是海底山脉。
And what's the context of the Phoenix Islands?	那么，菲尼克斯是什么背景呢？
It's the largest atoll nation in the world.	是世界上最大的环状珊瑚岛。
And he says, "cause that's where all the money is."	接着他说，"因为钱都在那儿。"
Some of the islands have already gone under water.	一些岛屿已经被海水淹没了。
And these nations are faced with a real problem.	这些国家正面临着这个严峻的问题。
We as a world are faced with a problem.	全世界都不得不面临着这个问题。
So I said, "Okay, I'm happy to buy lunch.	于是我说，"没问题，我乐意效劳。
Just get whatever anybody wants."	只要告诉我大家吃什么。"
They'd never had any information from the Phoenix Islands.	没有这些岛屿的任何资料。
And are you free for dinner?"	那个，你有空一起吃个晚餐吗？"
He coined the term "reverse fishing license."	他发明了逆向捕鱼证这个词汇。
I don't want to do something like this if it's going to go away after I'm voted out of office."	我可不想我一离开就半途而废。
So the conditions for success here are listed.	这里列出了几项成功的条件。
But the story is not just a recession story.	这一现象不仅仅存在于萧条时期。
There are about three and a half million people who drive trucks for a living in the United States.	美国有三百五十万人开卡车为生。
They haven't done a darn thing to the curves.	它们对曲线的走势毫无影响。
The lives of people, the welfares of people, improve dramatically.	居民的生活和福利会得到显著改善。
And I remember it as a true moment of happiness.	笑声我记得那是我真正的快乐时刻。
While, somewhat, the Spaniards ...	笑声然而，西班牙的设计师们有点，
And their inaugural exhibit was called "Happiness."	他们的首次展览名为"快乐"。
And there was a little -- an interesting theory about abstraction.	关于抽象有一个小而有趣的理论。
Another New York project.	笑声另一个来自纽约的项目。
Opens up at dusk and dawn every day.	在每天黄昏和黎明时分打开，
And being able to enjoy the end results.	并且可以去享受工作的成果。
And the whole thing just fell together.	这个正好与我的想法走到一起了。
Spiderman is raised by his aunt and uncle.	蜘蛛侠是被他叔叔婶婶抚养长大的。
After a while, his advisers complained.	没过多久，军师们向他抱怨。
And the last point about the 99 Noor stones is this.	关于99颗光明宝石的最后一条是
Why three? A couple of reasons.	为什么三人一组？原因如下。
And so this is the way I dealt with it.	于是，我就这样给他们分组。
So here's some of the characters that we have.	下面介绍故事的几位主角。
So a few days after that, what happens?	接下来的几天，知道发生了什么吗？
What happens is the world erupts in the Danish cartoon controversy.	丹麦卡通丑闻被公诸于世。
So there's a struggle within the team.	于是，这个小组便产生了矛盾。
Don't we deserve to be saved? Don't I?	难道我们不配被救吗？我不配吗？
The second one took place in upstate New York.	第二个故事发生在纽约的北部地区。
It was an Orthodox Jewish community.	那里有个东正犹太教社区。
You can tell by the glasses there.	你看他戴的眼镜就知道了。
He actually called me a meddling kid the other day.	他有一天还管我叫淘气小子。
But I borrow a lesson that I learned from him.	但是我从他身上学到了一个道理。
And the colors here represent the motivation behind the money.	颜色代表了这部分钱的用途．
Let me point out some that I really like.	让我来讲讲我很喜欢的一个例子．
Why is there a gap there?	为什么这里会有一个间断呢？
And, all right, I'm kind of milking the metaphor a little bit.	好吧，我有点夸大这个比喻了．
You might want to get some chocolate in.	你或许会想加一点巧克力进去．
Yeah, retail therapy might help.	嗯，购物疗法也许会有帮助．
I'm not quite sure I've succeeded.	我还不太确定这份简历是不是成功．
And I've never been to design school.	而且我从来没去过设计学校，
I've never studied art or anything.	我从没学校艺术或这类的东西．
I just kind of learned through doing.	我就仅仅是从做的过程中来学．
And I don't feel like I'm unique.	而且我不觉得自己是唯一一个．
It's effortless, it literally pours in.	不需要努力的，它就自己进来了．
It has the same bandwidth as a computer network.	它有和电脑网络一样的带宽．
So, you have the eye, and then you drop in the concepts.	所以你有眼睛，然后你想到了概念，
Gobble, gobble, gobble, gobble, gobble.	格格,格格,格格,格格,格格
But is it true that America has the biggest military budget?	但美国真的有最多的军事预算吗？
Because America is an incredibly rich country.	因为它是个特别富有的国家．
This kind of diagram is called a balloon race.	这样的图表叫作热气球竞赛．
And it feels just incredibly cool to do that.	做这件事感觉真是太棒了．
I mean, I find information just too interesting.	我想说，我觉得信息真是特别有趣．
So what you're smelling now is the top note.	现在你们闻到的是香水的"前味"
And then will come what they call the heart, the lush heart note.	接下来是"中味"甜味香料
And do not get the impression that this is very subjective.	不要觉得气味是十分主观的
You are all smelling pretty much the same thing, OK?	你们闻到的差不多都是一样的
This is one page of work from a chemist's workbook, OK?	这是一个化学家工作手册中的一页
So this is a profoundly inefficient process.	如此这是一个效率极低的过程
A theory is something that enables you to do less work.	一个理论可以使人们做更少的工作
This is cis-3-hexene-1-ol. It smells of cut grass.	这是顺3己醇闻起来像割下来的青草
It's very hard to explain this by molecular recognition.	用分子识别来解释这个问题难度很大
If you look on this, imagine a piano keyboard.	如果你看到这些想象一下钢琴的键盘
Now the good news is, Boranes you can get hold of.	好消息是硼烷是可以获取的
Now, this is a spectroscope, OK, on my laboratory bench.	这是一个分光镜在我实验室的椅子上
And this is the main objection to the theory.	这是反对这个理论的主要观点
OK, great, we smell vibrations. How? All right?	好吧我们闻到的是震动怎么闻到呢
You see, when you're a scientist, you're always selling ideas.	你们看科学家出售的是想法
But we're not actually doing it by astrology.	但是我们并没有利用占星术
That's Europe." But, yeah.	那是欧洲的公司。确实是的。
Fund the infrastructure. Fund the schools.	给基础设施和学校建设投资。
Those colorful, out-of-the-box kind of thinkers.	那些个性鲜明、不拘一格的革新家，
It was actually shaping and creating markets.	它实际上是在塑造和创造市场。
They want their returns in three to five years.	他们想在三至五年内得到回报。
Who's actually funding the hard stuff?	谁实际上在给研发难题提供资金？
Of course, it's not just the state.	当然，不仅仅是国家政府。
And so there's huge implications of this.	它当然会带来巨大的影响。
It's kind of been taking on that risk. Bring it on.	公共部门也在承担风险，勇往直前。
It's actually been the one thinking out of the box.	它实际上也成了创新科技的一部分。
That whole juxtaposition thing, it's kind of there.	整个并行的关系其实一直都有的。
Well, there's a self-fulfilling prophecy.	那么，有个自我实现的预言
One out of 10 experiments has any success.	10次实验中的一次也许会有成功。
Well, unfortunately, that's not true.	可遗憾的是，事实并非如此。
I mean, one can take a position on that.	我是说，总有人会受雇上岗吧。
It could happen perhaps through equity.	也许可以通过发行股票的方式。
And many people might need help in computation.	许多人可能在计算上需要帮助。
Perhaps a stealth thing.	也许这是一件隐匿的事情。
Plain English is about changing the content.	简单英语也就是改变内容。
Received very favorably by business.	这个作法在商务领域被欣然接受了。
All the parts of the document in red are not intelligible.	文件中所有标红的部分都让人费解。
And the IRS has introduced the program.	国税局已经引进了这个程序。
How have we not made the connection?	我们如何于孤儿建立起关系?
You were separated from your family by the state.	你会被国家赶出你的家庭。
So the adoption papers were signed.	就这样，我的收养协议被签下了。
The mother and baby's homes were often run by nuns.	母婴看护所通常是由修女运营。
If you were black, it was a summer of hate.	而黑人则受到不公正对待，
I was a sign from God, they said.	他们说我是一个来自上帝的信号。
I tried praying. I swear I tried praying.	我试着祈祷，我发誓我这么做过。
And it turns out I've got the Devil inside of me.	结果证明，那是魔鬼的欺骗。
They would march me down corridors in last-size order.	他们从走廊开始按年龄顺序强迫我
See, that's what family does.	看，这就是家庭所能带来的。
In creativity I saw light.	在创作中，我看到了曙光。
You saw the quality of the educators who were here.	我们的师资质量各位是有目共睹的。
Why haven't we fixed this?	可为什么我们没去做这件事呢？
What kind of business model is that?	那是一种什么样的运作模式啊？
What about introducing technology?	又或者，引入新技术怎么样呢？
I am never using that, right?"	我从没用过取款机。对吧？
Yet not in education. Why?	可就是教育从来没变过。为什么？
Every 10 years they reproduce the same study.	每10年他们都会重复这一研究。
I thought I knew something.	我想我还是了解一些情况的。
Why did we ever do it?	我们以前为什么一直这样做了呢？
It was a perfect place to have schools.	而学校是一个最合适不过的地方。
Because our business has refused to use science.	因为我们这个行业拒绝运用科学。
Here's what we know.	以下是我们所知道的东西。
We know that the problem begins immediately.	我们知道，问题很快就会来的。
Poor kids need that experience.	穷人家的孩子也需要这一体验。
We know health services matter.	我们知道健康服务很重要。
I used to make stuff up. Right?	我过去常常编造一些鬼话搪塞他们。
Maybe July, maybe June.	可能要等到七月，也可能是六月。
And the results have great data.	而考试结果里面含有大量的数据，
And so, what do you do?	那你怎么会利用好这些数据呢？
Now you've got all of this test data from last year.	你拿到这些上学期的测试数据
I'm going to make a prediction.	那我就可以帮你预测一下了。
We can't stifle innovation in our business.	在教育改革中，我们不能扼杀创新。
They get angry if you do something different.	如果你要做些改变他们会很不爽。
Some of it's not going to work.	有些特许的实验学校也不成功。
I mean, I really believe they should be closed.	说实话，我真的认为它们应该关掉。
The folks went out there. They kept inventing.	人们会不断地去发明、去创新。
The fact that you have failure, that shouldn't stop you from pushing the science forward.	失败不能阻止你将科学推向进步。
We've got to give them all of these opportunities.	我们要给他们足够的机会。
We'd better get that other seven percent.	但我们还要让那7%也读上大学。
So that's just how this goes.	这也就是我要生气的原因了。
JL: Well, thank you Dr. Canada.	好的。谢谢你，Canada博士。
Yes, who was the better man, my friend?	是的，谁是更好的人呢，我的朋友？
But who was the better man, old boy?	但是谁是更好的人呢，老伙计？
But who was the better man, old mate?	但是谁是更好的人呢，老伙伴？
The Maori twins with the tattooed bum?	毛里的双胞胎和刺青的浪人？
But who was the better man, old chum?	但是谁是更好的人呢，老朋友？
Now we come down to it, relatives grieving.	现在我们来到这里，亲戚们在哭泣。
I wrote this poem for her. These are not my beliefs.	我为她写了这首诗。这不是我的信仰
Never look back. Never look back.	不要向后看。不要向后看。
Never look back. Never look back.	不要向后看。不要向后看。
Never acknowledge the ghost on the stair.	不要承认在台阶上的魔鬼。
Now ladies and gentlemen, I'm up on me hobbyhorse.	现在，女士们和先生们，轮到我了。
You bodies are wonderful as they are.	你的身体和他们一样完美。
"To a Beautiful Lady of a Certain Age."	"致某个年龄段的美丽的女性"。
What is gone is gone. Now sleep.	过去的就让它过去吧。现在睡觉。
Time rules all, my dearest.	时间会抹平一切的，亲爱的。
None can make a stitch in time.	没有什么可以让时间停止。
What is foretold in the womb May not be foresworn with gold.	子宫里的定局不能金钱来伪造和改变
Dearest, do I love thee less?	亲爱的，我是爱你们少了么？
I hope you know that now.	我希望你们现在该知道了吧
But which of them reigns supreme?	但是他们谁的统治力的更大？
And what of the Constitution, That bully of last resort?	然后什么是宪法，最后的依据？
Love came to visit me, shy as a fawn.	爱光顾了我，像幼鹿一样害羞。
Comrades and enemies fled from its wrath.	同伴和敌人们逃离了这愤怒。
At 30 my powers seemed mighty to me.	在30岁时我的力量看起来很强大。
The fruits of my rivals, I shook from the tree.	我将我的对手从树上摇下来。
Love came to visit me, shy as a fawn.	爱光顾了我，像幼鹿一样害羞。
I was in a clinic. I wasn't allowed to make telephone calls.	我在诊所里。我被禁止打电话。
But sometimes I try to put myself in an evil man's position.	但是有时候我试图理解坏人的角度。
But sometimes I try to put myself in that position.	但是有时候我试图走进她们的角度。
I love to think what they thought, what it was like.	我喜欢想他们所想和发生的事情。
You think we didn't do that?	你认为我们没干过这些么？
I never did anything to anyone that wasn't.	我从没让好女孩做过那些事情
The love of your son can utterly transform anything he does.	你对儿子的爱可以完全改变他的一切
Pale she was, listless; And soft to the touch.	她苍白，冷漠；并且柔软。
A generous mistress Whom many loved much.	一个许多人喜欢的宽容的女人。
We breathed but to savor her crystal caress.	我们呼吸着去享受她宝贵的爱抚。
We craved but to favor the hem of her dress.	我们拜倒在她的石榴裙下。
We dabbled and babbled, Denying our thirsts.	我们絮絮叨叨不承认我们的渴望。
Came word out of Babel, the lady returns!	巴贝尔传来了消息，女士回来了！
My shame as a spur, I fled the abyss.	我的羞愧驱使着我勉强逃到了无底洞
We belong to the family called the Hominidae.	我们属于"人科"这个家族。
It's important to remember that we evolved.	要记住我们由猿进化而来，
We have a common past, and we have a common future.	我们有同样的过去，和同样的未来,
Not many people can say that.	并不是很多人都能够这么说。
That's a huge job that we've got on our hands.	这是我们碰到的一项大工程。
For the most part, we're not particularly pleasant at all.	大多是时候我们的行为不令人愉悦。
We have a much larger brain than our ape ancestors.	我们比先人有着体积更大的大脑。
Can we hold it together?	我们能够很好的生存下去吗？
Evolutionarily speaking, we're just a blip.	对进化而言，我们只是昙花一现，
Not quite the whole truth. Anyway.	不管怎么说，跟事实很接近了
And in this case, this object is -- plays on a host of levels.	在这里，这个物品具有许多层的意义
Then there is the fictional bird, the one that Hammett created for the book.	因此就有了汉密特为小说所创作的鸟
Now there's a lot of ways to fill and get yourself a nice smooth finish.	有很多填充和光面精整的方法
This thing was made of resin and it was too light.	这个是用树脂做的，太轻了
There's this group online that I frequent.	这里有个我常常光顾的在线小组
And this is, after some acid etching, the one that I ended up with.	经过酸蚀处理后我最终得到了这个
And this thing, it's deeply, deeply satisfying to me.	这个结果让我非常非常满意
That's half the weight of my dog, Huxley.	我的狗"赫胥黎"体重的一半
Now, here's the most recent progression of Falcons.	这是"猎鹰"系列最近的一些作品
Why didn't I start and make it bigger?	为什么一开始我不把它做大一点？
So what do I do? I figure I have two options.	那么怎么办好？我发现我有两个选择
And then, maybe, then I'll achieve the end of this exercise.	然后，也许，这一切就告一段落了
And then everything went black.	但突然间，世界变得漆黑一片。
I'd broken my neck and my back in six places.	我的颈椎和脊椎断了六处，
My whole right side was ripped open, filled with gravel.	我身体的右侧完全撕开，满是砂石，
I had head injures. I had internal injuries.	我的头部受了伤，也受了内伤，
"Come on. This is our opportunity."	"来吧，这是我们的一个机遇。"
The central nervous system nerves, there is no cure.	中枢神经系统的伤势无法完全复原。
I tried to grasp what she was saying.	我努力想要听懂她说的话。
If I couldn't do that, then what could I do?	如果这都不能做了，我还能做什么？
I was lying on a thin, hard spinal bed.	我躺在一张薄薄的硬床上，
After six months, it was time to go home.	过了六个月，我该出院回家了，
She said, "You are, because, see, it happens to everyone.	她说，"你会的，因为每个人都会。
I realized Sister Sam was right.	我意识到萨姆护士说得对，
All I wanted to do was put my running shoes on and run out the door.	我只想穿上我的跑鞋，跑出门去，
And I realized that this wasn't just my life.	我认识到，这不是我一个人的生活，
And then I stopped asking, "Why me?"	于是我不再问，"为什么是我？"
And I started to ask, "Why not me?"	我开始问，"为什么不是我？"
I was free to explore life's infinite possibilities.	我能自由探索生活的无限可能。
And that realization was about to change my life.	这一认识接下来会改变我的人生。
If I can't walk, then I might as well fly."	如果我不能走，那我不妨飞。"
I said, "Mom, I'm going to learn how to fly."	我说，"妈妈，我要学飞行。"
She said, "That's nice, dear."	她说，"那不错啊。亲爱的"
They said, "You know, when do you want to come out?"	他们说，"那你想什么时候飞？"
I'm holding on to the counter because I can't stand.	我靠在柜台上，因为我站不住，
"You get her.""No, no, you take her."	"你带她。""不不，你带她。"
It was beautiful. They lifted me into the cockpit.	非常漂亮。他们把我抬进了驾驶舱，
Andrew the instructor got in the front, started the airplane up.	教官安德鲁钻到前面，启动了飞机，
I said, "No, I can't use my legs."	我说，"不，我的腿动不了。"
So he got over to the runway, and he applied the power.	于是他开到跑道上，开足马力，
And then I got my commercial pilot's license.	后来，我拿到了商用飞行驾照。
And then I thought, "Why stop there?	然后我又想，"为什么停下来？
Industrial design is the art form of the 21st century.	工业设计是21世纪的艺术形式。
This is all created digitally.	这全是用数码方式创造出来的。
At that point, I don't know if that's possible at all.	那时我一点都不知道这是否可行。
These are the invisible things that you never see in your life.	这些是你一生中看不到的无形事物。
When I do make some money, I'll have one machined for myself.	当我赚了钱，我将为自己做一个。
It fits arthritic hands. It fits children's hands.	适合患关节炎的手，适合儿童的手。
It doesn't look as cool, does it?	它看起来并不起眼，不是吗？
It's made from polysaccharides and proteins.	它是由多糖类和蛋白质制成的。
If you pour water on that, it dissolves.	如果你浇水在其上，它会溶化。
Could we be manufacturing from foodstuffs in the future?	将来我们可能用食材来制造东西吗？
It's the world's first chair made in magnesium.	这是世界上第一个用镁制造的椅子。
This is an absolutely beautiful way of working.	这绝对是一个美丽的工作方式。
What nature does is it drills holes in things. It liberates form.	自然会在物体里钻洞。它解放形态。
This is a show that's currently on in Tokyo.	这是正在东京进行的一个展览。
These actually are sold as artwork.	这些实际上是当艺术品在卖。
I'll tell you about that later.	关于这件事我晚点再告诉你。
This is a new chair which should come on the market in September.	这是一张将在九月上市的新椅子，
It's a gas-injected polymer chair.	它是一张气体注入的聚合物椅子。
The coring out of the back lets you breathe.	背部的镂空让你可以透气。
This is some current work I'm doing.	这是一些目前我在做的工作。
How you grow legs out of a surface.	你如何从一个表面长出脚来。
I don't know. If I just got some time.	我并不确定。只要我有时间。
That's the car of the future. It's a water droplet.	未来的汽车。它是一个水滴。
I've been banging on about this like I can't believe.	我一直以难以置信的方式测试它。
I'm going to show you something a bit weird now.	我现在要让你们看一件怪异的东西。
The only place that didn't laugh was Moscow.	唯一不笑的地方是莫斯科。
Its cars are made from 30,000 components.	汽车是由三万个零件组成的。
You do and not anaesthetized, separated from life.	你看得到，而不会晃忽、脱离生活。
There's a hole at the front, and there's a reason for that.	前面有个洞，这个设计是有原因的。
Can you imagine? A car on a stick.	你能想象吗？棍子上的车子。
I'm trying to build furniture that fits architecture.	我试图建造适合建筑的家具。
This is the steriolithography of a staircase.	这是以立体原型法制作的楼梯。
I built this thing for my studio.	我为我的工作室建造这个。
Lean, efficient things. Healthy products.	精简、高效率的东西。健康的产品。
Modern materials allow us to do modern things.	现代材料使我们能够做现代的东西。
This is how it looks pretty much every day.	它平日看起来就是这个样子。
You wouldn't want to have a fear of heights coming down it.	下来时但愿你没有惧高症。
That's my studio. It's subterranean.	这就是我的工作室。它在地下。
It has a lighting system that changes throughout the day.	它有全天自动调整的照明系统。
I bought that last year. They're very difficult to find.	我去年买了它。它们很难找到。
It's true. Because there's a soul in this whole thing.	真的。因为整个当中有个灵魂
We need to have a new instinct for the 21st century.	为了21世纪，我们该有新的直觉。
We need to combine all this stuff.	我们必须结合所有的东西。
Thank you, James, for your great inspiration.	谢谢，詹姆士，感谢你伟大的启发。
So you turn on the camera, turn out the lights.	然后打开摄像机，关上光设备
There was another one of those comb jellies.	这里看到的也是栉水母的一种。
So, how does a living creature make light?	那么这些生物是怎么样发光的呢。
This fish actually has high beams.	再看这条鱼，装备的还是远光灯。
So instead, it slides in grooves on the outside of the head.	所以，它的牙齿只能在头部外滑动。
These are the eyes of a living anglerfish.	这是一条活琵琶鱼的眼睛。
This little guy has no visible means of self-support.	这些小东西没有可见的自给工具。
Well, this is a deep-sea version of Women's Lib.	嗯，这是妇女解放运动的深海版。
This is an unbelievable light show.	这是一场难以置信的光展，
I've made hundreds of dives in submersibles.	我曾随潜水器下水几百次，
And I had my window into the deep sea.	这样子我找到了通向深海的窗口。
I promise, you'll love it.	我保证，你会爱上那番景象。
If you have an idea, you just go and you make it.	如果有自己的想法，就得动手去实现
Or it can be used to make an assistive device.	另外一个例子。这是一个辅助装置
Or you can find it in arts projects.	另外，也有在艺术方面的应用
Or you get kids, like these kids, they're from Spain.	再看看这些来自西班牙的孩子
This is a room of type-A women.	在座的各位女士都是最优秀的人。
And I learned the hard way, the value of sleep.	我不辍的思索着，睡眠的价值。
And I began the journey of rediscovering the value of sleep.	而后我便开始重新探索睡眠的价值。
And this is what I saw when I looked out of the window.	这就是我当时所看到的窗子
I said, "Something's wrong here."	我说，"这里一定是发生了错误。"
He called me from Cambridge, Massachusetts.	而是来自马塞诸萨州的剑桥。
This is a frog that tries to copulate with a goldfish.	这是一只青蛙试图和一只金鱼交配，
Please note that this is necrophilia.	请注意这又是一起恋尸癖，
It's remarkable: the position.	而且尤为不寻常的是——体位……
So what does this mean?	那么这些现象意味着什么？
At least, I thought it was till I got these slides.	直到我看到接下来的这组幻灯片。
And here you see a dead duck.	这里你可以看到一只死掉的鸭子
Here he goes, and here's a short video.	它要冲向玻璃了，请看视频。
May I have my duck back, please?	请问我可以取回我的鸭子吗？
This is red, like TED.	这个是红色的，就像TED的颜色。
I didn't have to think about the notes.	对这些调子已经不需多加思索。
It's full of different melodies. Yeah.	耳边总响起不同的旋律。是这样的。
Also, the way I dress has changed.	而且，我穿着的方式也变了。
Before, I used to dress in a way that it looked good.	以前，我只穿看起来还行的。
Now I dress in a way that it sounds good.	现在我会穿听起来悦耳的。
Yeah, Nicole Kidman sounds good.	嗯，妮可基德曼听起来还不错。
And here's some music translated into color.	这是一些转换成颜色的音乐。
I would encourage you to become a cyborg.	我会鼓励你们成为一个半机械人。
You won't be alone. Thank you.	你不会感到孤单的。谢谢。
A couple of years ago I was hiking near Cody, Wyoming.	几年前我在怀俄明州科迪徒步旅行。
And our guide was a local science teacher.	我们的导游是当地的一位教师。
But the direct costs are really only the tip of the iceberg.	直接成本实际上只是冰山一角。
They're threatened with a legal claim.	他们被一个法律要求所威胁。
Neither in Sacramento nor in Washington.	在萨克拉门托和华盛顿都很不好。
My favorite, though, are all the warning labels.	我最喜欢讲的，是那些警告标签。
They'll think it was some kind of aphrodisiac.	他们会认为这是某种春药。
My favorite warning was one on a five-inch fishing lure.	我喜欢的一个警告是五英寸的鱼铒。
I grew up in the South and whiled away the summers fishing.	我长在南方并且每年夏天都要钓鱼。
Self-consciousness is the enemy of accomplishment.	自我意识是完成目标的敌人。
So, how do you restore trust?	所以，怎么才能恢复信任？
We've forgotten that second part.	我们已经忘记了第二部份。
Because no one will want to take the risk of a lawsuit.	因为没有人愿意担着被起诉的危险。
So, how do we rebuild it?	那么，我们如何重新打造它？
Worked pretty well for 200 years.	已经完美运作了快两百年。
We have to rehumanize the law.	我们必须把法律重新人道化。
Case dismissed without prejudice or refiling in small claims court.	案例在小法庭上没有偏倚被取消。
You can't run a society by the lowest common denominator.	你不能用最低标准去运行一个社会。
That's what's happened to America. Look around.	这就是美国的现状。四处看看吧。
They don't have the time to get to know us.	他们也没有时间来认识我们。
Rules and incentives -- "sticks" and "carrots."	规则和奖励--大棒和萝卜。
Why? Because bankers are smart people.	为什么？因为银行家很聪明，
We need people who want to do the right thing.	我们需要想要做正确的事的人。
They fashion a novel solution to the problem.	他们发明了一种新奇的手段。
A wise person knows when to improvise.	有智慧的人知道何时应该即兴发挥。
So I'll give you an example of wise practice in action.	让我来举一个这种智慧实践的例子。
He was a responsible husband and father.	他是一个负责任的丈夫和父亲，
All this would do is wreck a family.	条例所规定的判决只会毁了这个家，
He did. He served out his sentence.	迈克这么做了。他服完了他的判决。
He made restitution and found himself a new job.	他做出了赔偿，找到了新工作，
He did after all have a toy gun.	毕竟，迈克的确用了一把玩具枪。
Judge Forer had to follow the law.	佛热法官必须按法律办事。
Now consider Ms. Dewey.	现在来讲杜伊女士的故事。
Ms. Dewey's a teacher in a Texas elementary school.	杜伊女士是德州小学的一名教师。
And second, they demoralize the activity itself.	第二，他们使活动本身没有意思。
The very practice is demoralized, and the practitioners are demoralized.	活动本身没劲，参加的人沮丧。
And it doesn't have to be this way.	社会本来不必像现在这样，
He was busted in a drug sweep.	他在一次扫毒活动中被抓获。
But Judge Russell did have an alternative.	但是法官罗素有另外一条途径，
And that's because he was in a special court.	因为他是在一个特殊的法庭，
Judge Russell created the Veterans' Court.	法官罗素创立了这个老兵法庭，
Why has the idea spread?	为什么这个点子会得到传播呢？
None. None.	一个也没有，一个也没有。
The bankers stayed with their loan recipients.	那些银行家们与贷款客户一起，
They didn't make loans and then sell the loans.	他们并不只是制造和出售贷款，
So there are lots of examples like this that we talk about.	还有很多类似我们讲的事例。
People want to be allowed to be virtuous.	人们希望能够做有品德的人，
So how are you going to respond to it?	如果是这样，你会如何应对？
We live in a modern, global world.	我们生活在现代化、全球化的时代里
The brand has an Achilles' heel.	即是说，这个品牌具有致命缺陷
We've got to attack that brand in front of them.	我们需要在他们面前打垮这个品牌
We've got to show we're a better product.	我们必须告诉消费者我们的产品更好
We've got to reveal the dangers in the product.	我们必须揭露这种产品的危害
We've got to get in to those homelands.	我们要进入恐怖主义滋生的地方
That's where their consumers come from.	这就是他们发展消费者的地方
How are we going to do these attacks?	我们该怎样应对恐怖主义袭击呢？
It burnt my hand, whatever." You believe them.	"我的手被烧伤了"，人们就会信
This is my favorite part of my speech.	下面到了我最喜欢的部分了
There's a lady over there as well who lost her legs in this bombing.	另一位女士在爆炸中失去了双腿
Today's approach, governments have learned from their mistakes.	现在的办法是，政府从中吸取教训
But mistakes of the past are inevitable.	但是过去的错误是不可避免的
So what we need to do is we have to effect it.	所以我们要做的是去影响它
But one of the first early cases on this was the Omagh Bombing.	但是其中最早的例子是奥马炸弹事件
Some of those victims said enough is enough.	其中一些受害者说够了够了
They were embarrassed. Their recruitment went down.	他们很尴尬，继而就招不到人
A good one is in Somalia. There's a war on piracy.	一个好例子是索马里对海盗的战争
What we're trying to do there is turn pirates to fisherman.	我们想做的是把海盗变成渔民
We must foster innovation, as I've said.	正如我说的，我们必须鼓励创新
And in 1945, we were the only nuclear power.	在1945年我们是唯一的有核国家
It's incredible that we actually lived through all that.	我们能活到现在简直是难以置信
And actually -- so there are multiple uses of the bomb shelters.	事实上，这个防空洞可以又很多用处
Here is their first big public announcement.	这就是第一次大范围的公告
This was what apparently, as it turns out, was behind all this.	这显然就是这个计划背后的目的
Chapter two starts in 1991.	第二个阶段是从1991年开始的
So, what is a nuclear terror threat?	那么，什么是核恐怖袭击呢？
They're available to be bought, stolen, whatever.	这些核弹头可能被贩卖或是被偷窃
They're acquirable, let me put it that way.	换句话说，它们可以被其他人得到
Well, there's a lot of know-how out there.	好吧，其实到处都能找到制造技术
There's books about how to build a nuclear bomb.	有教你如何制造核弹的书籍
They are very dedicated and committed.	他们极具献身精神并且异常忠诚
Seven million ship cargo containers come into the United States every year.	每年有七百万集装箱货船驶入美国
You put the elements into a suitcase.	你把这些部件放进一只手提箱
And if you're in this vicinity, you've got to get away.	如果你在这附近，就得设法逃离
So the goal here is to minimize fatalities.	我们的目标是将死亡人数降至最低
I can cut any way I want to, so I cut right here.	我可以怎么切都行，比如这里
So our doctors said these are eye candies.	我们的医生朋友都觉得这个华而不实
I'm going to cut some veins, arteries.	我需要切割一些静脉，动脉
Wish I could build my muscle this fast.	真希望我自己的肌肉能长这么快
And this is another way to learn anatomy.	这是另一种学习解剖的方式
It looks like our table also can transform gender, too.	看起来我们的解剖台还可以改变性别
What were scientists called before?	在那之前科学家们如何称呼自己？
The four men really helped each other in every way.	这四个人真的做到了相互帮助。
I'm going to tell you about how I learned something about life.	我要讲的是我是如何研究生命的
So he was convinced, but, in fact, most people aren't.	他是被说服了不过大部分人却没有
Except that nowadays, it's heavily disputed.	不过近来这个观点备受质疑
Maybe I do need a definition of life in order to make that kind of distinction.	也许我需要一个生命的定义来做区别
And it says something complicated with lots and lots of concepts.	带着许多许多概念的复杂表述
Oh, it's actually a really, really, important set of concepts.	但这确实是一堆很重要的概念
Why? Because these things don't evolve by themselves.	为什么？因为它们不能自己演化
And he went home and says, "I know how to fix this."	他回了家说，"我知道怎么解决"
And all different strains are colored in different colors.	每一个变种都用不同的颜色标记
This can be improved upon in so many ways so quickly."	这可以以很多种方式很快地改善"
So you see waves of new types taking over the other types.	你可以看到新的类型取代其他的
Can we measure this type of life?	我们能测量到这样的生命吗？
And obviously each of these letters comes off about roughly equally frequent.	显然这些字母出现的频率基本相等
And I'm telling you, this is very robust across English texts.	而且英语文字的这种现象非常明显
It doesn't matter whether it writes about politics or about science.	不论内容是关于政治还是科学
It doesn't matter whether it's a poem or whether it's a mathematical text.	不管是一首诗还是数学内容
It's a robust signature, and it's very stable.	都有明显的标识并且很稳定
Each of these instructions appears with roughly the equal frequency.	每一个结构出现的频率基本一样
And there's actually some instructions that you only use once, if ever.	而有些你只能用一次，如果要用的话
So I'm going to show you now a little experiment that we did.	现在给你们看一个我们做的实验
So there is no life possible at that type of mutation rate.	所以那样的突变率任何生命无法存活
And now what I did there is, I was being nasty, I just turned up the heat again and again.	然后我就很邪恶地调高了温度
And I'm just showing this to you again because it's so nice.	我再给你们看一遍因为这个太棒了
And so that's really the only take-home message that I have for you.	这是我唯一的可以让你带回家的信息
The guys says he's looking for his keys.	那个男人说他正在找他的钥匙
Some of you may have used it before.	你们当中的一些可能以前用过。
We have paper forms for vaccination surveys.	注射疫苗统计有纸质表格。
We have paper forms to track people who come into clinics.	调查去医院的人计有纸质表格。
And what we're looking at here is a truckful o' data.	我们现在看到的是一卡车的数据
I can tell you, I often wasn't really paying attention.	我可以告诉你，我那时经常分心。
Now try and wrap your head around that for a second.	现在试着考虑一下这一点。
You just had teams of hundreds of people.	你只有一个几百人的团队。
They went out into the field to answer a particular question.	他们要去实地回答一个特定的问题。
The process just stops. Happens all the time.	进程就中断了。这常常发生。
It worked exactly as well as anybody would have predicted.	它就像每个人所预计的那么好。
That means you had to know I existed.	这意味着你必须知道有我在，
I need to think about this some more.	我需要在多多考虑一下这个。
You just have to hear about it and go to the website.	你只需要听说它然后登陆网站。
No one has to speak to me.	不需要有人来和我说话了。
You just have to hear about it and go to the website.	你只需要听说它然后登陆那个网站。
But there are some additional benefits as well.	而且还有一些更大的益处。
What happened after we did this?	我们在做了这些之后发生了什么呢？
And I think it should be obvious.	并且我觉得它应该很明显。
Well, the unknown is part of life.	那么，未知是生活中的一部分。
But how do we do that?	但是，我们如何做到这一点？
And I think in life it should be exactly like this.	我认为在生活中应该是完全一样的。
Because we will throw away these political dogmas.	因为我们会丢掉这些政治教条。
Well, these basically are things I believed in such a long time.	那么，这些是我一直以来的坚信。
We fly twice the speed you predicted."	我们比你预测的飞行速度快两倍。"
So, we went down actually.	因此，我们实际上是在下降
But we were expected to have doubts; we're expected to have fears.	但当我们把疑惑和恐惧除外。
And actually this is where the adventure really started.	而实际上这就是冒险的真正开始。
We changed completely our strategy.	我们彻底改变了我们的战略。
I had no idea how it was possible.	我当时不知道是如何去实现它。
It allowed to do all those things there.	人类实现了那么多的梦想。
But it will not be possible in the future any more.	但是，这不可能在未来了实现了。
Why that? Because fuel is not easy to replace.	为什么呢？由于燃料是不容易更换。
Just the fuselage here, it's so light.	只是机身这里，它是如此的轻，
And one month ago we have unveiled it.	一个月前我们已经向公众介绍了它。
A real airplane that we could finally present.	一个我们可以终于真正展示的飞机。
A little bit like on this picture here.	有一点像这里的这张照片。
But still, I'm sorry I can't be with you in person.	尽管如此，没能到现场，我很抱歉。
The revolution -- this revolution -- is much bigger than that.	革命—这个革命—不只如此。
Now, you need a laptop.	现在，你需要的仅是一台手提电脑。
What I would like to see is idealism decoupled from all constraints.	我更想看到理想主义脱离旧约束。
The geopolitical world has got a lot to learn from the digital world.	地缘政界有许多该向数码界学习的。
It's a journey that started 20 years ago.	这是二十年前开始的旅程。
We went on the quiet to see for ourselves what was going on.	我们悄悄地去了解那边的情况。
The children had a name for me.	那里的小孩给我取了个名字。
And it's a feeling I can't ever quite forget.	并且是我无法忘记的感觉。
Except this isn't the cause, is it?	只是这不是什么主张，是嘛？
That's not a cause. That's an emergency.	这不是什么主张。这是危机。
That's not a cause. That's an emergency.	这不是什么主张。这是危机。
That's not a cause. That's an emergency.	这不是什么主张。这是危机。
This is not about charity. This is about justice.	这不是做慈善，这是伸张正义。
But justice is a tougher standard than charity.	可是正义，比慈善更难拿捏。
You see, Africa makes a fool of our idea of justice.	非洲使我们所谓的正义显得可笑。
Not here, not in America, not in Europe.	不在这里，不在美国，不在欧洲。
It's crazy, really, when you think about it.	如果你仔细想想，这太疯狂了。
They're attempting to bring order to chaos.	他们正尝试在混乱中带来次序。
Poverty breeds despair. We know this.	贫困会带来绝望。我们清楚知道。
Despair breeds violence. We know this.	绝望会衍生暴力。我们清楚知道。
"The war against terror is bound up in the war against poverty."	反恐战争和铲除贫困是息息相关的。
Doesn't compassion look well on us?	怜悯之心会让我们显得更好？
Someone's put a brick through the window.	有人用砖头在窗口砸了一个洞。
Never before have we in the west been so scrutinized.	我们西方不曾如此被注视过。
Our values: do we have any?	我们所重视的价值，还在吗？
These things are under attack around the world.	这些东西在世界各地受到抨击。
And I say that as a fan, you know?	我是以一个粉丝的身份说。
More anti-retrovirals make sense.	更多的抗逆转录病毒药物会更好。
This is the straight truth, the righteous truth.	这是最直接，最正义的事实。
Forget the '60s. We can change the world.	忘了六十年代。我们能改变世界。
I can't; you can't, as individuals; but we can change the world.	我不能，你不能，可是我们能。
I really believe that, the people in this room.	我真的相信这个房里的人能。
Ideas that you gestated in your youth.	是你们年轻时孕育的理想。
Most of you started out wanting to change the world, didn't you?	你们不是一直都想改变世界吗？
Most of you did, the digital world.	是的，你们的确改变了数码世界。
And I'm not really one for the warm, fuzzy feeling.	我并不特别喜欢那模糊温暖的感觉。
You see, idealism detached from action is just a dream.	理想脱离行动只是一个梦。
And it's very present in a crowd like you.	那对你们来说是很真实地存在。
I have been, of late, disappointed with the Bush Administration.	最近，我对布什的行政感到失望。
And we'd like you to give us that energy.	我们希望你们给予我们能量。
Anyway, so I'd like your help in getting that signed up.	我需要你们帮忙联系他们。
But you know, we want, we need some airtime for our ideas.	可是我们需要一些播放时间。
Americans have an unprecedented opportunity.	美国人有个前所未有的机会。
One, by one, by one.	一个，接着一个，接着一个。
And I would like it to be Ethiopia.	我希望那个国家是埃塞俄比亚。
That is my wish, my third wish.	那是我的心愿，第三个心愿。
And that would be a mind-blowing wish to come true.	若那能实现，那会很振奋人心。
I've been to Ethiopia, as I said earlier.	如我先前说的，我到过埃塞俄比亚。
It's actually where it all started for me.	我的旅程正是那从里开始的。
But it didn't start out that way.	可是不是一开始就这样的。
Metaphor lives a secret life all around us.	暗喻秘密地生活在我们中间。
Lips are not lips, but volcanoes.	嘴唇不再是嘴唇，而是火山。
So, how do we make and understand metaphors?	那我们如何运用和理解暗喻呢？
Look at this image. What do you see?	请看这张图。你看到了什么？
Sexually unattractive people leave us cold.	而不性感的人让我们觉得冷冰冰的。
Metaphor matters because it creates expectations.	暗喻很重要，因它带来期待
That's a hypothetical example of course.	当然这只是个虚构的例子。
But this is how metaphor misleads.	但是暗喻确实会这样误导人。
Now metaphor is ubiquitous, yet it's hidden.	暗喻虽然无处不在，却是隐藏身形。
And these fossils still breathe.	而这些化石现在仍具有生气。
That's routinely translated as, "I think, therefore I am."	通常被翻译为"我思故我在。"
And expression also, it has brought talents.	一些标语也让有才能的人崭露头角。
So let's talk about the personal story for a moment.	我们就来谈谈你的个人故事。
I wish I could show you my Yemen.	我希望我能给你展示我的也门。
I'm not a Yemeni; I'm not an Indian."	我不是也门人，我也不是印度人。"
It's about proving who you are and what you can do.	你需要证明你是谁，你能做什么。
So that was the answer to all the Yemeni people.	这是我们对所有也门人的回答。
If you could please stand up, [unclear].	请你站起来好么。[不清晰]
I've tried to encourage young girls.	我一直鼓励年轻女孩儿们摘掉面纱。
Today, we are in a much better situation.	现在我们的处境比过去好多了。
She said, "Those high notes are going to kill you."	她说，"那些高音会害死你的。"
Well, the altitude exacerbated my symptoms.	可是高海拔恶化了我的症状。
I could barely stand up without feeling like I was going to faint.	我连站起来都伴随着晕眩的感觉。
No one wants to go on Flolan.	没有人喜欢服用依前列醇钠。
Within a few days, I could walk again.	几天之后，我能再次走路了。
My doctor wanted me to get on the list for a lung transplant.	我的医生希望我做肺移植手术；
They left my chest open for two weeks.	他们把我的胸腔打开了两周。
He said it would kill me.	他说这样做对我是致命的。
One year ago to this very day, I woke up.	一年前的这一天，我醒来。
But life isn't really just about avoiding death, is it?	但是生活不仅仅是避免死亡，对吧?
Now this is what brought me to the human-related issues.	现在，这就引到了跟人有关的话题。
But we also start out as aquatic organisms.	但我们也是从水中的有机体而来的。
Because maintaining a pregnancy is dependent on hormones.	因为维护怀孕是依靠荷尔蒙。
And I have to take a little bit of artistic license.	我只得借助一点艺术特权。
We are in effect polluting our children.	我们实际上在污染我们的孩子。
These are just men who live in an agricultural community.	这些男士都居住在农业社区。
And it's not just atrazine they're exposed to.	他们并不只接触阿特拉津。
That's the percentage we recycle.	而这就是塑料可怜的回收率
Now, melting point has a lot to do with this.	这与塑料的熔点有很大关系
Notice that the bottles here have caps on them.	请注意这些瓶子上都有瓶盖
We cleaned up the swaths of beach shown.	我们清理了这片狭长的沙滩
Here are the 1,100 bottle caps they collected.	这就是他们搜集的1100个瓶盖
That day I ended up spending nearly 60.	而那天到最后我花了接近60美元
Now, you can buy certified organic produce.	你可以买到经过认证的有机制品
This is the legacy we are leaving to future generations.	这就是我们为子孙后代留下的遗产
And that goes for every single person in this room.	这一点在座的每一位也都可以做到。
We had to deal with composite images that were merging photos from previous storms.	用以前风暴的照片合成的图片。
Let's see who they are."	让我们来看看他们都是何方神圣。"
So that was the only one that gave us a clue.	最后一个线人给了我们一些线索。
We looked through the video for other clues.	我们仔细观看视频寻找其他的线索。
We're looking for one that crosses east-west.	我们要找东西向横跨河流的桥。
Sequoia sempervirens is the tallest living organism on Earth.	它是地球上最大的生命机体。
I'm going to do a little Gedanken experiment.	我想做一个小小的想象实验
And Chris, if you could take the end of that tape measure?	克里斯，拿着卷尺的头好么?
Now, let your imagination go upward into space.	现在，然你的想象力向天空延伸
My wife and I adore our children.	我和我妻子很喜欢我们的孩子
Children are incredibly adept at climbing trees.	难以置信地，孩子们十分擅长爬树。
We camped overnight in the trees, in tree boats.	我们在树林里或树舟上宿营过夜，
It became a writing project.	这变成了我的一个写作计划。
You do feel a sense of exposure.	你一定有一丝刺眼的感觉。
You feel like you're climbing a wall of wood.	你会觉得你在爬一堵树墙，
Maria's sitting on one of them.	玛丽亚坐在其中的一个上。
These limbs could be five to six hundred years old.	这些大树枝可能有五六百岁了。
This buttress is less than halfway up the tree.	这个树垛不到树身的一半。
And then it bursts into a forest of Redwoods.	然后它萌发出一片红杉林。
There's the person, right there. The person is waving to us.	那个人就在那。他在向我们招手。
And there's also something that I want to show you.	我还有一些东西给你们展示一下。
It's absolutely heartbreaking to see.	看到这些实在是令人心碎。
It has everything an ambulance has except for a bed.	除了没有床，救护车有的它都有了。
We all saw the tragedy that happened in Boston.	我们看到了波士顿发生的惨剧。
I grew up in a small neighborhood in Jerusalem.	我成长在耶路撒冷的一个小社区。
The bus was on fire, and many people were hurt and killed.	车着火了，很多人受伤和被烧死。
Maybe that was because of what I saw when I was a child.	或许就是因为我孩提时看到的景象。
That second he declared this child dead.	他宣布了这个孩子的死亡。
I said to myself, there must be a better way.	我告诉自己，一定有个更好的办法。
We're not really interested in these kinds of new adventures.	我们对这些新玩艺不感兴趣。
"I don't need your help," he said.	他说，"我不需要你们的帮忙。"
As you see now, I'm walking around like crazy, meshugenah.	看我，疯子一样走来走去。
I ran there by foot. I had no medical equipment.	我拔腿就跑到那，我没有医疗器械。
I knew I had to stop his bleeding or else he would die.	我知道我要快止血，不然他会死的。
The reasons why we're so successful are because of three things.	我们如此成功的原因有三。
And we save people that otherwise would not be saved.	我们救人，不然他们就没救了。
The second reason is because of our technology.	第二个原因是我们的技术。
That's why we get there so fast.	这就是为什么我们会如此之快到达。
We started hand in hand saving Jews and Arabs.	我们手拉手救犹太人和阿拉伯人。
They're all doing it for the purpose of saving lives.	他们这样做的目的就是拯救生命。
When I started this organization, I was 17 years old.	我开始这个组织的时候，我17岁。
Forty-two thousand of them were life-threatening situations.	有4万2千人是处于生命危险状况。
Now of course, we had a very interesting discussion.	在当下，我们有一个很有趣的讨论
I asked them how they feel about what they started.	我问他们开始的时候是怎么想的
So let me just mount some drives. Go over there.	让我来攻击几个驱动器，来到这一步
So let me just run some viruses on my computer.	让我在我的电脑上运行几个病毒
For example, let's go with the Centipede virus first.	比如说让我先运行一个蜈蚣病毒
Let me show you one which actually makes some sound.	让我给大家展示一个出声音的病毒
Today, viruses are a global problem.	如今，病毒已经是个全球问题
And if we just scroll around, it's just massive.	如果我们滚动一下会发现有很多
We find tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands.	我们发现数万个，甚至数百万个
And that, obviously, is a problem.	当然，很明显，这是一个问题
So the amount of money online crime generates is significant.	因此说网上犯罪的金额是非常大的
I mean, the Internet is international.	我的意思是，互联网是个国际性的
That's why we call it the Internet.	这也是我们为什么称它为国际互联网
So you just can't shut these guys down.	但你不可能阻止住这些家伙
So how do you actually go around finding online criminals?	因此你如何找到网络犯罪分子？
What we have here is one exploit file.	我这里有一个有漏洞的文件
And we can go here and actually start decrypting it.	然后我们就来到这里然后开始解密
And that's a backdoor which will take over your computer.	这是个后门程序，它将接管你的电脑
How do I know about this car?	我是如何了解到这辆车的?
But things are also changing at a very rapid pace.	但事情总是在改变并且速度非常可观
Everything is reliant on these computers working.	一切都是依赖电脑才能工作
Think about all the services we have online.	想想那些我们通过网络得到的服务
We have to do this globally, and we have to do it right now.	我们必须全球联手且刻不容缓
There are lots of thing that the approach I take can predict, and there are some that it can't.	有一些东西我可以预测有一些我不能
I'm not engaged in predicting random number generators.	我也不会去预测随机生成的数字
It assumes that people are looking out for what's good for them.	博弈论有一个假设，那就是人人为己
A lot of people are worried about what is rationality about?	很多人都在冥想到底什么是理性的
The secretary of defense doesn't know much about Iran.	国防部长不一定十分了解伊朗
Why should we believe what he's saying?"	为什么我们要听信他所说的？
So I'm going to show you a factoid.	所以，我先让你们看个数据
So where are we going to get this information?	那么，我们怎样获得相关信息呢？
What is Iran going to do about its nuclear weapons program?	伊朗的核武器计划是怎样的？
How secure is the theocratic regime in Iran?	伊朗政教合一的政权是否稳定？
How are things going to be working out for him in the next year or two?	他未来一两年的日子好过吗？
And then the model makes predictions down the road.	现在，我们的模型开是进行预测了
Who are the winners and who are the losers in Iran?	那么在伊朗到底谁是赢家和输家呢？
So it would be a good thing.	所以，这是一个很好的东西
And the scale and the speed of this system is truly breathtaking.	这个系统的规模和速度着实惊人。
I mean, who are these people?	我的意思是说，这些人是谁？
And each of these can vary by country.	每个都随国家的不同而改变。
And think carefully about the policies that you attach to that content.	要仔细想清楚附在内容中的条款。
But it's not just about dollars and impressions.	但这不仅仅是美元和大众印象。
It's a stretch of beach we know so well.	那是一段我们非常熟悉的海滩。
The smooth stones on the sand are familiar to us.	沙滩上光滑的石头也为我们熟知。
There's a new moon on the horizon.	当一轮新月出现在地平线上时。
I thought every seven-year-old went through this.	我想每个七岁的孩子都会经历这些。
It will sometimes be a lonely road.	有时会走上一条孤独的路途。
Satawal is one half-mile long by one mile wide.	萨塔瓦尔岛有一英里半长一英里宽。
Mau is a palu, a navigator priest.	毛是名巴鲁，一名航海牧师。
There are fewer than a handful of palu left on this island.	这个岛上只有很少的巴鲁。
It's what he had been trained to do since he was five years old.	这就是他自从五岁起就受训做的事。
This is part of our collective narrative.	这是我们集体叙事的一部分。
We must course-correct.	我们必须朝着正确的方向前行。
The link between the past and the future is fragile.	过去和未来间的联系是脆弱的。
True navigation begins in the human heart.	真正的航行从人类的心中开始。
Together, may we journey well.	让我们一起，祝愿我们路途愉快。
All of us here have great minds.	在座的各位，我们都有很棒的头脑。
And with our minds we can rationalize anything.	我们能够把任何事物合理化。
How do you take what you're dreaming of and make it happen?	如何把你的梦想变成现实？
Because science is easy, right?	因为科学比较容易，对吗？
But when it comes to fulfillment -- that's an art.	可是"满足"却是一门艺术。
Now, when you ask people, you know, have you failed to achieve something?	当你问人，你是否曾经失败过？
How many know what I'm talking about here? Say, "Aye."	谁知道我在说什么的？说"明白"
But I appreciated the energy, I'll tell you that.	但我告诉你，我欣赏那种能量。
An emotion, then, creates what we're going to do or the action.	然后，情绪创造我们的下一步行动。
But what was his decision of what to focus on?	但他决定了把注意力集中在什么？
Different than most people. What did it mean?	和大多数人都不同。什么意思？
Your model of the world is what shapes you long term.	长期塑造你的，是你的世界观。
That's what makes people make decisions.	促使我们作决定的就是那个过滤器。
And it's made up of three parts, I believe.	我相信这由三个部分组成。
How many of you here love surprises? Say, "Aye."	你们谁喜欢惊喜的，说"明白"
You can do it by being more spiritual.	或通过更加关注精神的崇高纯洁。
You can feel the difference in him and it's beautiful.	你可以发现他的不同和其内在的美。
So sure enough, I went out and what did I do?	想当然，我出去做了些什么？
And she played the recording for us in the room.	她把这个留言播放给我们听。
Thank you. I hope this was of service.	谢谢。我希望这对你有所帮助。
And that was largely because there weren't any.	主要原因是，根本就没有。
And I can light up the Nutmeg like a beacon.	点亮照明灯，在黑暗中仿佛灯塔。
She was with me on my lifeboat.	其实她和我一起在这艘方舟，
So I really consider myself a storyteller.	我真的觉得自己很会讲故事，
It's been running for about a year and a half.	这个项目已经运行了大概一年半，
And I'll walk you through a few of those now.	现在我和你们一起看看其中几个。
"I feel a bit better now."	"我现在感觉好一点了。"
The next movement is called Montage.	下面这个模式叫作"剪辑"。
Each of these can be clicked and we can blow it up.	每一张图片都可以点击放大。
The final movement is called Mounds.	最后一个模式被称作"山丘"。
It's a bit different from the others.	这个跟刚才的几个有点不同。
And if I hold down my cursor, they do a little dance.	如果按住鼠标，他们会抖动。
Perseus flying to the rescue of Andromeda.	珀耳修斯座飞去救援仙女座，
I mean, these are the great tales of the Greeks.	这些都是希腊人的美好的神话。
And it caused me to wonder about our world today.	它使我思考我们今天的世界，
And it uses this metaphor of an interactive night sky.	它模拟了一个能互动的夜空。
So, it's my great pleasure now to show this to you.	非常高兴现在可以演示给大家看。
You can start to see words emerging here.	你开始看到文字在这里浮现。
Now the things that relate to it are swirling around.	现在和它相关的事情环绕在它周围。
This is a photographic representation, called Snapshots.	这是一个相片集合，叫作"快照"。
We can have his constellations emerge here.	我们可以把他的星座显示在这里，
And then we can also see a timeline.	我们还可以按照时间排列，
Here we have our star field. Here we have our shapes.	这里是星图，这里是形状，
You know, when you were masters of daydreaming?	当大家都还是做白日梦大师的时候？
Let's say you're in love. All right?	比如说你现在正在热恋中，好吧？
You know, you're thinking about your own mortality.	你知道，你在思考自己的死亡。
And there, on the horizon, it's the Grim Reaper.	然后在地平线的那边，出现了死神。
What would that mean? I have no idea.	这意味着什么？我不知道。
A little rarer are the fallstreak holes. All right?	有点更罕见的是云洞，好吧？
It's what's produces thunder and lightning and hail.	它负责制造雷、电和冰雹。
It's good for your ideas. It's good for your creativity.	它对你的想法和创造力也有好处。
It's really a huge challenge for us.	这对我们来说真的是个很大的挑战。
And the challenge is really found in this picture here.	这个难题就在这张照片里。
We're facing this problem.	这个难题就摆在我们面前。
So we're getting the dynamics out of the body as well.	我们甚至可以捕捉人体的动态。
So we have to do something that's a little bit more intelligent than doing this.	那么我们就必须使一点小聪明。
So what we do is that we put all these slices together.	我们把这些图片整合在一起。
Maybe even find a tumor, in some cases.	在某些情况下，我要看是否有肿瘤。
So this is where this little dear comes into play.	这时这个小宝贝给了我启示。
She's only two years old, and she's having a blast.	她才两岁。看她玩得眉飞色舞的。
So what's inside of this machine is what enables me to do the things that I'm doing with the medical data.	这台机器帮助我分析医学数据。
So really what I'm doing is using these fantastic little devices.	我所利用的就是这些神奇的小设备。
I paid about one million dollars for that machine.	这台机器花了我一百万美元。
You can see the individual structures of the woman.	还能看到她各个部位的结构。
So these are fantastic images.	这些都是非常精密的视图，
You can really see the details of the data set.	你们可以看到数据群的细节；
Here's another case that I think is interesting.	这里还有一个很有意思的案例。
So it's a very nice little device.	这才是个非常实用的小仪器。
So if you have the opportunity, please try it out.	如果有机会，你一定要试试。
And to take that even further, this is a heart.	更绝的还在后面，这是一颗心脏。
Then he can examine how the heart is moving.	然后他可以检查心脏的动态。
And this, I think, is really the future for heart surgeons.	我认为这就是心脏外科手术。
Now we're going even further into science fiction.	现在我们看到的科幻技术更加超前。
Now this is really an interesting project.	这是一个很有意思的项目。
So this is something that we've been working on.	这是我们目前正在研发的项目。
These visualizations are brand new.	这些成像技术都是最新的。
This is another sequence of Motts' brain.	这是马茨大脑的另外一次活动。
Well this is fantastic. We can do this in real time.	这绝了。我们能够进行实时操作。
And he's also hearing our instructions when we tell him to do things.	他同时也在听我们的指示。
I can look inside of it.	可以看到她身体内部的情况。
And we've been experimenting with this.	我们一直在做这方面的实验。
What's known out there for veterinarians is kind of basic information.	兽医们所得到的信息不够深入了。
And the bear is a cuddly, friendly animal.	这头熊非常憨态可掬，也很友好。
So, some very talented people.	感谢这些才华洋溢的工作人员。
And, I get a lot of flak for this at Cambridge.	而且，在剑桥我受到了很多"非议"
And after that -- there's nothing much to say about that.	再之后——这部分没有什么好讲的
But the kids were the best part.	不过孩子们才是最令人印象深刻的
And they weren't used to that.	而且实际上他们很少得到这样的机会
He was the son of one of the poorest families in the village.	他是这个村子中那些最穷人家的孩子
I want you to estimate the height of the building."	我要的是你测这个建筑的高度
Well -- -- I hadn't thought of that one.	哦————我都没有想到这一招！
And many experiences like this happened to me.	我经历了很多像这种的事情
Well, after -- -- that's the truth.	然后……——事实就是这样。
But then I began to explore another alternative.	不过之后我开始探索另一种可能性
The conventional picture of the Big Bang is a point.	传统的大爆炸源自于一个点。
And there've been bangs in the past, and there will be bangs in the future.	过去发生过爆炸，将来也会有爆炸。
What about those kids I'd left behind?	我离开的那些孩子们怎么办？
So here's just the standard area map of the world.	现在这幅就是标准的世界地图。
What about Africa's capacity to do something about these problems?	那么非洲应对这些问题的能力如何？
Well, here's the number of physicians in Africa.	我们来看一下非洲的医生的数量
It just doesn't exist scientifically.	根本就不存在，科研方面的。
It's very, very interesting what's happening.	现在正在发生的事情非常非常有趣。
They want to be the next Einstein.	他们想成为下一个爱因斯坦。
They'll do well. They'll have successful careers.	他们将做的很棒，他们将取得成功。
And AIMS has done extremely well.	同时AIMS也取得了极大的成功。
And where they are is indicated over here.	这里是目前他们的所在地点。
So here you can see behind this list.	因此在这个名单的后面你可以看到。
My understanding of the course is that it covers quite a lot.	我对这个课程的理解是它包罗万象。
This is Ezra. She's from Darfur.	这是Ezra，她来自达尔富尔。
So now let me get to our TED wish.	现在我要讲到我们的TED愿望。
And what we need to do is to replicate it.	我们需要做的就是将其复制。
And here are the ones we've selected.	这里是我们已经选定的一些地点。
At every site there will be huge challenges.	每一个地点都将面临严峻的挑战。
But nobody was really worried about this.	但并没有人真正担心过这些。
That's how much power this computer uses.	如此多的能量都被这个电脑消耗了。
Rory is a graduate student at Stanford.	Rory是斯坦佛大学的研究生，
Now, how much computation does the brain do?	那么人脑究竟能计算多少呢？
How is the brain able to do this?	人脑是怎么做到这点的呢？
It shows you these cells that process information.	它向你展示了这些处理信息的细胞。
That process is called a synapse.	这个过程被称为神经突触。
The net is doing the work in the brain.	就是这个网络担负着大脑的运转。
Brian actually said this in 1995.	Brian说这话时是1995年
And this is a little protein molecule.	这是个小小的蛋白质分子。
Now, this pore can open and close.	现在，这个孔是能开能闭的，
That's the red path that's highlighted.	就是这着重标出的红色路线。
What you see here is that there's these redundant connections.	现在你看到的是一堆多余的连接
It makes the brain inherently robust.	它令大脑自然而然地强大。
This is something that we've been working on for the last couple of years.	过去数年来我们一直在为此而努力。
It will give you the same kind of robust architecture that I described.	这是同我描述过的一样的强大结构。
Here is actually what our artificial eye looks like.	这就是我们的人造眼睛的样子。
And then it also extracts movement.	然后硅片也摄取物体的运动。
But the point that I want to make -- I'll show you up here.	但是我要说的是，看这里。
And I had this gut reaction that this was the wrong way to do it.	我的本能反应是这种做法是错误的。
And that's going to impact how it's going to evolve.	影响到技术的发展的方向。
How do you observe something you can't see?	如何观察那些你看不见的东西？
So why is it so important?	那么，为什么这很重要呢？
Gravity wins over all other known forces.	引力胜过其他所有已知力量
And the object is forced to continue to collapse to an infinitely small object.	物体被迫继续坍塌成为一个奇点。
And it turns out that it's actually pretty simple to figure out.	事实证明，这很容易算出来
Bigger objects have bigger Schwarzschild radii.	更大的物体有更大的是史瓦西半径。
And your job today is to be skeptical.	而你要做的是对此表示怀疑。
Now, what I want to talk about are the supermassive black holes.	现在，我想谈谈超大质量黑洞。
And the supermassive black holes are thought to reside at the center of galaxies.	超大质量黑洞被认为位于星系中心。
So, we see the galaxy because of the star light.	我们看见星系是因为恒星的光。
And we call them active galactic nuclei.	我们称之为活跃星系核心。
And this is a wide field picture taken of the center of the Milky Way.	这是一张银河系中心的大范围图片
And what we see is a line of stars.	我们看到的是线状的恒星系。
Which is the job that I have to show you today.	这正是我今天想要向大家展示的
And that buys us about a factor of 20.	这可以提高我们1／20的成功率
So, I want to see how these things have moved.	我希望观测它们是如何运动的
Absolutely my favorite star in the world.	这棵星毫无疑问是我的最爱
That's kind of profound, in a way.	这也可以看成是另类的深邃吧
To give you a sense of how small that size is, that's the size of our solar system.	究竟有多小这是太阳系的大小
And the truth is, I'm not quite there.	但事实上，我还没有达到那个程度
You should see a lot of old stars next to that black hole.	你将可以看到黑洞附近聚集很多星体
So, you shouldn't see young stars.	所以你不应看到年轻的星体
So, you can already see the surprise.	你应该也已经感到很吃惊了
That was his passion for the music.	这就是他对于音乐的激情。
Both my parents really loved it.	我的父母亲都非常热爱音乐。
It's a language that's still evolving.	这是一种还在不断进化的语言。
So many emotions seem to be inside of it.	它里面看起来包含了如此多的情绪。
And in the 17th century, it was more like this.	到了17世纪，就更倾向于这样的。
Ah, wicked, cruel fate!	啊，邪恶的，残酷的命运！
It's just these two notes in the middle.	差别只是中间的两个音符。
Turns out it was capable of expressing emotions beyond the ability of words.	它能表达语言不能描述的情感。
It's the time in which the big forms began to arise.	这是大的形式开始上升的时代。
Now this moment so fascinates me.	这个时刻让我觉得非常有意思。
And how might that change their lives?	那又是如何改变他们的生活的？
What sticks with people?	依然留在人们身边的是什么？
And the exciting thing is all this is just a prototype.	令人兴奋的是，这些都只是个雏形。
You don't need to worry about knowing anything.	你不用担心自己知道的不多。
I'm not sure why there is a hole in this particular man.	我不确定为什么那个人身上有个洞。
So this is the dawn of the new age of kites.	这样就到了风筝新舞台开始的时候。
So you ask, how big are those machines?	那么你会问到，这些机器有多大呢？
Your Cessna would be 230 killowatts.	你们的塞斯纳就会是230千瓦。
I think that's a craze among teens right now.	这个现在在青少年中非常疯狂
Instead, I'd like to try something called "improvisation."	作为替代，我想试试所谓即兴作曲
Now, she chose C, G, B, A, E.	现在，她选了C,G,B,A,E
And I'm also a little nervous about this.	而且我为此而感到有点紧张
So, let's explore.	好吧，让我们一起探索一番
This kid is known online as Lil Demon.	这个孩子的网名是LILDemon
This is what he said at TED in February.	这是他两月份在TED大会上说的
The second thing you need is light.	你需要的第二样东西是聚光灯
You know, innovation's hard work.	大家知道，创新是一项艰苦的工作
There's probably going to be some innovation happening here.	这里面一定会有创新应运而生
You get hundreds of strangers writing excitedly about you.	还有数百个陌生人兴奋地评论你
Also, the system is self-fueling.	而且，这个系统是会自我完善
The dark side of the web is allergic to the light.	网络黑暗的一面是对光线过敏的
But you can publish your stuff online.	但是你可以在网上发表你的东西
We're getting great talks back from them.	他们从他们那里得到很多出色的演讲
Even he said that, and he would know.	即便他怎么说了，他也知道
Suddenly, here we are.	突然，我们就看到了今天的景象
Suddenly, he starts to emulate and then to innovate.	突然，他开始模仿，然后创造
I mean, there's a lot of passion right here on this screen.	我是说，这个屏幕上充满了热情
Why would someone bother?	为什么大家还要来听TED演讲呢
Well, so, there's some showing as well as telling.	那是因为讲述中还夹带了展示
Reading and writing are actually relatively recent inventions.	读和写其实是相对新的发明
But now, in the blink of an eye, the game has changed again.	但现在转眼之间游戏改变了
We may have to reinvent an ancient art form.	也许我们要从小发明这门古老的艺术
It's the participation age, right?	这是一个参与的时代，不是吗？
What if, in the coming crowd of nine billion ...	如果，滚滚而来的九十亿人群
what if that crowd could learn enough to be net contributors, instead of net plunderers?	都能学着成为贡献者而不是掠夺者？
It's not crazy; it's actually happening right now.	这不是逛想，这些事情正在发生
There are so many good things which are happening right here in Kibera.	现在的基贝拉，有些好事情正在发生
They used the same trash to form green manure.	他们把同样的垃圾打造成绿肥
Change happens when we see things in a different way.	转播我们看待事物的不同方式
Today, I see Kibera in a different way.	今天我们以不同的眼光来看待基贝拉
And that's a huge amount of data.	那么，这可以说是海量的数据
Now, let's go to the visuals.	现在，我们来看视觉辅助工具
The most obvious visual thing on stage is the speaker.	演讲人本身是最明显的视觉工具
Slides are okay, though you might consider going for props.	可以有幻灯，但道具效果往往更好
This has literally revolutionized cognitive science.	这个发现极大地改变了认知科学
You couldn't do people like this. You couldn't do healthy people.	我们还不可能拿健康的人来这样研究
And now, we have a new experimental prep: human beings.	现在，我们可以研究人类了
Valuation is just what you think it is, you know?	简单来说就是你觉得某种东西怎么样
They're immiscible. They don't mix with one another.	它们没有交集，没有可比性
Why is that? You know, because you're pissed off.	这是为什么呢？因为你生气了，
You have to be able to remember what you've done.	你必须记得住自己做了什么。
That is, you have to decide what that other person expects of you.	你要决定对方对你的期望是什么。
We can compute that during the game.	我们可以计算在博弈中的最优策略。
Let me leave you with one thought in closing.	现在，让我提出一个想法作为结束，
That's the argument I want to make tonight.	这就是我今晚想要论证的观点。
Now, why do I think now is the moment to make this argument?	为什么我现在提出这种观点呢？
It had sucked all that power up from the localities.	它剥夺了当地地区所有的权利。
This, I think, is a huge change.	我认为，这个是一个巨大的改变。
I don't think they lasted very long.	我认为这些都没有维持很长时间。
So what does all this add up to?	那么，所有这些都意味着什么？
Everyone needs a coach.	每一个人都需要一位教练。
We all need people who will give us feedback.	我们都需要能给我们反馈信息的人。
Our teachers deserve better.	我们的教师应该受到更好的对待。
Let's start by asking who's doing well.	我们先来问问谁做得比较好。
Consider the rankings for reading proficiency.	我们来看看阅读水平的排名。
We're not even in the top 10.	我们甚至连前十都没能进入。
What would that system look like?	这样一个系统会是什么样子的？
So it tells us we're asking the right questions.	这说明我们问的问题是对的。
Okay, so I would like you to please bring up your papers.	好的，请你们拿出你们的纸张。
But I can hear the sound. I can see a lot.	但我能听见声音。我能看到很多。
Alrighty, everybody, have a great weekend.	好了，大家，祝你们周末愉快。
This wouldn't just make us a more successful country.	这不仅会使我们的国家更成功。
So who gets to do it?	那么谁会让这些成为现实呢？
We work in groups, in big cities — — and in small villages.	一起工作的在大城市小村庄
We genetically engineer bacteria.	用遗传基因的方法制造细菌
I'm not going to minimize those concerns.	我不会试着去打消这些顾虑
That's a lot more than conventional science has done.	而传统科学却没有做到这一点
I've actually chosen to take a different kind of risk.	我实际上准备冒另一种"风险"
We're only seeing just the tip of the DNA iceberg.	我们只是瞥见了DNA的冰山一角
Let me show you what you could do right now.	让我告诉你你现在能做些什么
Let's begin with a story.	﻿我先与大家分享一个故事。
Let's call it Island Networks.	我们姑且称它为岛屿网络。
But then something unexpected happened.	然而出人意料的事情发生了。
He was never informed of the results of the test.	也没有人告知他测试的结果。
What was his terrible crime?	他到底犯下了什么可怕的罪行？
These laws respect universal human rights and they are grounded in evidence.	这些法律尊重普世人权，有理有据。
But you know what? You don't have to take my word for it.	但你知道吗？你不必相信我的话。
The problem is that these laws are flouted.	问题是这些法律被藐视了。
That's the day I found out.	这天，我得知我是爱滋病患者，
I am sure now that is the reason they sterilized me.	我敢肯定这是他们给我绝育的原因，
Because I am HIV positive.	因为我是爱滋病毒携带者。
They're the lucky ones because they're still alive.	他们是幸运的，因为他们还活着。
And looking globally as well, deaths are also starting to fall.	与爱滋病死亡人数，都正在下降。
People who inject drugs are one of those groups I mentioned.	注射毒品的人是我提到的族群之一。
But changing the law isn't.	但改变法律并不那么复杂。
I thought I would start with a very brief history of cities.	我觉得我得从城市的历史简单说起
You needed easy access to the fields.	这样你就到地里去就很方便了
And for hundreds, even thousands of years, the home was really the center of life.	几百几千年以来家就是生活的中心
It was the center of entertainment, of energy production, of work, the center of health care.	家是欢乐，动力工作，和医疗的中心
You had dirty factories that were moved to the outskirts of cities.	那些污浊不堪的工厂都搬到了郊外
You had centralized energy production.	我们还把能源生产也集中起来
The office building is basically obsolete for doing private work.	办公大楼基本淘汰了私人的工作
And that's a very important trend to think about.	这是值得关注的一个重要趋势
In that it's a place for people, you know.	图中那里就是人们可以待的地方
The 20 arrondissements of Paris are these little neighborhoods.	巴黎的20个区就像20个小邻居
We think of it as a compact urban cell.	我们觉得这是一种紧凑的城市单元
The Highline in Manhattan is very similar.	曼哈顿的高压线也是类似的情况
We actually did exactly the wrong thing in Boston.	在波士顿我们完全做了错误的事
You don't need reverse. You don't need parallel parking.	无需退车，也无需平行泊车
You don't know if it's going to run you over.	也不知道它是不是会把你碾过去
We hope to have that built this fall.	我们期待它在今年秋天可以面世
Housing is another area where we can really improve.	住房是我们能改善的另一个方面
And so we've been working on a chassis of the wall itself.	我们现在已经在研发机器墙的底架
We think these little wireless sensors are more effective.	我们觉得这些小型无线传感器更给力
We think workplaces should be shared.	我们认为工作场所也应该共享
We need shared spaces for interaction and collaboration.	我们需要共享的空间进行互动和合作
We're not doing a very good job with that.	这方面，我们做得不是很好
It's a global imperative. We have to get this right.	这个全球性问题迫在眉睫，刻不容缓
So they were incredibly important animals.	所以它们是非常重要的动物
It would often drown and suffocate.	它们会被溺死或者窒息而死
We kill about 100 million sharks a year.	但是我们人类每年捕杀1亿只鲨鱼
Some people say it's not population decline.	一些人认为这不是姥鲨数量的减少
It might be a change in the distribution of plankton.	而是因为浮游生物分布产生了变化
Go up in your boat and tag the shark.	架在船上然后扎入鲨鱼体内
We tagged 105 sharks last summer.	就去年夏天共标记了105条姥鲨
But it's a very simple and easy technique.	但是这是一个非常简单和容易的技术
One is to try and work out the gender of the shark.	一个人试图辨认出姥鲨的性别
And here's a couple of maps that we've done.	这个是几张我们绘制的地图
I don't understand this. I don't pretend to understand this.	我不理解这点。我也不不懂装懂。
And using different microsatellites gave the different results.	用不同的微型卫星会得出不同的结果
We were getting quite a few caught in surface drift nets.	我们在海洋漂网中捕获过几只
And some are caught in nets, in trawls.	还有一些被各类渔网，拖网捕捉到
So I was thinking that must have come from the shark.	所以我当时就想这一定是来自姥鲨的
There was no way we were going to get a sample from that.	我们几乎不可能从那里得到样本。
And they sat on it for months actually.	然后事实上他们研究了几个月
Look at that lovely, black shark slime.	看看这个如此可爱的黑色鲨鱼黏液
And they are caught and they are on the market.	比如他们被捕捉并在市场上出售
I'll take that as my scientific legacy.	我把它们作为我科学研究的宝贵遗产
But for the time being, thank you for that.	但是现在我只想说感谢大家
So thank you and thank you for listening.	最后感谢大家前来听我的演讲
I was a young reporter. I had just come out of college.	当时我是个年轻记者，刚从大学毕业
The scoop was quite a very simple story.	那则独家新闻是十分简单的故事
So I decided to go there and act as a seller.	因此我决定走上街头扮成一个小贩
I recall how they were seriously boiling the concoction.	我记得他们多么认真地烹煮药汁
My journalism is about hard core evidence.	我的报导正是关于核心证据
You see a hand counting money just in front of me.	你看见有只手在我面前数钱
I have been there for a long time.	我在那里待了很长一段时间
If you have extreme diseases, you need to get extreme remedies.	如果罹患重病就必须下重药
And that has aided in me putting a lot of people behind bars.	它帮助我将许多人送进监狱
Before we go undercover, we follow the rules.	进行卧底之前，我们一向照规矩行事
Does your breath smell bad while you're answering my interrogation right now?	跟我说话的时候有口臭么？
What are you into? Who are you into?	你喜欢什么？你喜欢什么人？
I grew up in a very sheltered environment.	我在一个受庇护的环境中长大。
I mean, who knows, right?	我是说，谁看得出来呢，对吧？
When you're six, maybe you can do that.	当你六岁的时候你也能这么做。
I felt like I was performing this elaborate act.	我只是觉得这是一场精心的演出。
I wave no flags in my own life.	我从来没有参加过游行示威。
Were we even a group? What group?	我们是一类人么？哪一类？
There is no equality in the United States.	这样的美国没有平等可言。
So far we've shot 300 faces in New York City.	目前我们在纽约拍摄了三百张人像。
And a lot more people wanted to show their faces than I had anticipated.	想要参与的人数远远超过的了预计。
Familiarity really is the gateway drug to empathy.	熟悉程度是引发同情的重要因素。
It wasn't that we had too many boxes, it was that we had too few.	我们的盒子不是太多，而是太少。
Can you quantify your openness?	你能量化自己的开放性么？
What we see are human beings in all their multiplicity.	我们看到的是人类的多样性。
Because I already am all of those things.	因为我已经是你生活的一部分了。
Some got killed, and some did it without drug assistance.	有些丧了命，即使并没有沾染毒品。
Apparently, Lucifer means "the light."	显然，路西法的意思是"光明"。
He didn't do a good job of keeping it there though.	他却没能使恶一直呆在那里。
But how am I going to -- how am I going to deal with that hypothesis?	但我如何证明这个假设呢？
These pictures are of a violent or sexual nature.	这些照片都是暴力或色情的。
Why? Tier 1-A was the center for military intelligence.	为什么？1A层是军方情报中心。
But the guards ended up calling him "Shit Boy."	但士兵们最终还是叫他屎男。
He comes down and says, "I want to know, who is responsible?	下来问，"我想知道谁该为此负责？
We look at what's inside of the person, the bad apples.	我们查看那些坏苹果的内在特征。
And this is where the power is of the bad-barrel makers.	该系统即苹果桶制造者权力之所在。
And what is the system that creates and maintains that situation?	制造并维持该情境的系统是什么？
And it said, "We don't want college students.	上面写着，"我们不要大学生，
The learner's a genial, middle-aged guy.	学生是一个和蔼的中年男子。
You're a good person. You complain.	你是一个好人。你去投诉。
The experimenter says, "Don't worry, I will be responsible.	实验人员说，"不要紧，我来负责。
And the question is, who would go all the way to 450 volts?	问题是，谁会一直按到450伏特？
What's the validity in the real world?	它在真实世界中的有效性如何？
He persuaded them to commit mass suicide.	他说服他们进行集体自杀。
75 people volunteered, took personality tests.	75个人志愿参加，做了人格测试。
I'm going to put them in a bad situation.	而我将把他们放在一个坏的情境里。
And there was cameras all around and neighbors all around.	周围都是相机，围满了邻居。
You could tell it wasn't a real jail.	你可以看出来出它不是间真的牢房。
They were taking this experiment too seriously.	他们对这个实验太认真了。
They strip them naked. They sexually taunt them.	他们脱光囚犯的衣服，性侮辱他们。
In some, they wear masks.	在某些文化里他们戴着面具。
Dehumanization of others. De-individuation of Self.	对他人去人性化。对自己去个体化。
Diffusion of personal responsibility. Blind obedience to authority.	推卸个人责任。盲目服从权威。
Uncritical conformity to group norms.	不加鉴别地依从群体规范。
Your personality and morality are disengaged.	你的人格和道德感被关闭了。
Real world parallels? Compare this with this.	真实世界的情况？和这个比较一下。
Bullying is a disease. Prejudice is a disease. Violence is a disease.	欺侮是病。偏见是病。暴力是病。
That means that line is not out there.	也就是说，这条线不是外在的。
That's why we know their names.	因此我们才知道他们的名字。
This is the woman who stopped the Stanford Prison Study.	这个女人阻止了斯坦福监狱实验。
The good news is I married her the next year.	好消息是，我第二年就娶了她。
He's standing on a subway in New York.	他在纽约地铁等车的时候，
A white guy falls on the tracks.	一个白人掉进地铁轨道里。
A half an inch would have taken his head off.	再低半英寸就会把他的脑袋铲去。
Take path one, you're going to be a perpetrator of evil.	第一条路，你会成为恶之犯人。
You're going to cheat, or you're going to allow bullying.	你将会欺骗，或允许欺侮。
This is a mystery that has really been extremely hard to elucidate.	这种神秘之处确实极难阐述清楚。
I don't believe that, and I think the situation is changing.	我并不相信，我认为情况正在改变。
But at any rate, they are there.	但是无论如何，他们是存在的。
That flow of mental images is mind.	这些源源不断的精神图像就是思维。
Everything is nice and fine and perpendicular.	所有的线条都很好，漂亮并且垂直。
On the right side, my retina is perfectly symmetrical.	在右边，我的视网膜是非常匀称的。
So from the retina you go onto visual cortex.	所以从视网膜中你了解到视觉皮层。
The self is really the elusive problem.	自我确实是一个难以捉摸的问题。
And I thought about a solution to this problem.	我对这个问题的答案进行了思考。
Well it so happens that we have a singular body.	恰好我们有一个单独的形体。
There is just one reference point, which is the body.	这只有一个参照点，是身体。
So that's one more element for this continuity.	所以那是这延续性的另一个元素。
There is the brain stem in between the cerebral cortex and the spinal cord.	脑干在大脑皮层和脊髓之间。
It is that specific.	他们的功能就是那么具体。
So now I'm going to show you a picture.	现在我要让你看一张照片。
They're not there for looks.	它们可不是为了好看才放在那的
They're there because there's this very close interaction.	而是因为那里有非常紧密的互动
Feminism was the water I grew up in.	女性主义是我成长的羊水。
I thought they were really hot.	我当时想这袜子真是性感啊。
But we also have a straightforward political impact.	我们也直接承受了政治影响。
I was fired up; I was ready to make a difference.	我充满热情，准备要有所做为。
You may have guessed by now, I did not light myself on fire.	你现在可以看到我没有引火自焚。
I wrote the book I needed to read.	我写了本我需要阅读的书。
Instead, what she really wanted to do was make films.	她真正想做的事情，其实是拍电影。
And at the end of the day, what could possibly be more important than that?	到最后还有什么比这些更重要的呢？
But how good a failure is it?"	但这是个多好的失败经验啊！"
It's to say we operate on two levels.	这是要我们应该有两种做法。
It's about acting in the face of overwhelm.	在难以承受的状况下开始行动。
I've always been fascinated with knowing the self.	我总是对了解自己非常感兴趣
We've cluttered ourselves up with all this.	我们被这些东西搞得乱七八糟。
It's really only a successful escape.	我们得到的真的只是成功的逃离。
Think of the term we use, "Retreat."	想想我们用的词，"撤退"。
It means we've got to get out of here.	这意味着我们需要离开战场。
It's called thought-controlled computing.	这个研究叫做"思维控制计算"。
Let me show you what it looks like.	我给你展示一下这个是什么样的。
That blue line there is my brainwave.	那条蓝色的线是我的脑电波。
The more relaxed I am, the more the energy's going to fall through it.	我越放松，耗费能量的数量越低。
We were transcending the space between the mind and the device.	我们超越了思维和设备之间的空间，
Here's an application that I created for the iPad.	这是我为iPad制作的一个应用
I like to call this "intra-active."	我想称之为"人人交互"。
This technology is intra-active.	这个技术是人人交互式的。
It would be like plugging into your own personal Google.	这就像登录到你自己的谷歌上一样。
I wanted to be a biker chick.	我想成为一个摩托飞车女。
Because big sisters are always supposed to support their little sisters.	因为姐姐总是应该支持她们的妹妹。
And he said, "So what are you going to do to celebrate?"	他说道，"你打算怎么庆祝生日？"
And what the hell does that mean to you?	各位知道这意味着什么吗？
So let me just tell you, the great part of all of this?	我来告诉你们其中最重要的部分？
I might buy some more time.	我也许能再多争取些时间。
Beyond this hand is a world of Vaseline.	在这手后面是一片模糊的世界。
And every woman, you are so beautiful.	每一位女性，都非常美丽。
And they decided to tell me that I could see.	他们决定告诉我我能看见。
But very quickly I recovered. It was like that.	但很快我就恢复了。就这样。
The first thing I thought about was my mom, who was crying over beside me.	我首先想到的是我妈妈在为我哭泣。
So I rammed through life as only a Casey can do.	我只是在做凯西能做到的。
And they didn't even know.	他们并不知道我的眼睛有问题。
And it's extraordinary how far belief can take you.	信仰能带你走这么远真是太非凡了。
Wonderfully, my eyes decided, enough.	精彩的事，我的双眼决定不干了。
And two years in, I really could see very little.	过了两年，我确实只能看见一点点。
I can't see, and I need help."	我看不见，我需要帮助。"
Asking for help can be incredibly difficult.	寻求帮助可能会难以置信地困难。
But all that belief had fueled me so long.	但所有的信仰让我坚持了很久。
And please, any designers out there?	拜托，在场的每一位设计师。
But before I got to him, I was so lost.	但在我见他之前，我非常不知所措。
God no, it was therapy.	上帝啊，没有，那是治疗。
And do you love what you do, Caroline?"	你喜欢你所做的么，卡洛琳？"
I just was so -- how do I tell him?	我太激动了--我怎么跟他说呢？
Hardly appropriate at this moment in time.	很难描述那一时刻的情形。
And I had no idea where I was going. I had no idea.	我不知道要去哪儿。完全不知道。
Really not a very sensible thing to do.	这不是什么非常明智的做法。
I know this run so well, by the back of my hand.	非常熟悉，通过我的手背熟悉的。
And there was a rock that I always missed.	那儿有块我总是会避过的石头。
And I'd never fallen on it, never.	我从未摔倒在它上面，从来没有。
And there I was crying away, and smash, bash on my rock.	我边哭边跑猛的撞到那块石头上。
And you know, the extraordinary part of it is I just simply had no answers.	最特别的地方是，我没有答案；
Look where my belief had brought me to.	看看我的信仰把我带到了哪儿。
And really slowly, slowly, slowly, it happened.	非常非常慢地，事情发生了。
You don't get more different than that."	不会有比这更不同的了。"
And it doesn't matter whether I'm a boy or a girl, I'm just going to scoot.	无论我是男是女，我就是要去试试。
I'm going to go across India on the back of an elephant.	我要坐在大象的背上穿越印度。
I'm going to be an elephant handler."	我要成为一名大象驾驭者。"
From global management consultant to elephant handler.	从全球管理顾问到大象驾驭者。
And together we would trek a thousand kilometers across India.	我们将一起跋涉一千公里穿越印度。
But you know, I was believing in the wrong thing.	但各位知道，我所相信的是错误的。
I chucked in my job at Accenture.	我辞去了在埃森哲的工作。
Being absolutely true to yourself is freedom.	做绝对真实的自己，才是自由的。
And I never needed eyes to see -- never.	我不在需要眼睛来看--绝不。
Losing of labels, because we are not jam jars.	抛开标签。因为我们不是果酱罐；
I think that ship has sailed, it's too late for me.	我认为木已成舟，为时已晚。
And I loved game shows, fascinated with game shows.	我喜欢游戏节目，迷上了游戏节目。
I didn't try to figure out what one does with that.	没有试图搞清楚如何发挥特长，
This was the first I'd heard of it.	这是我第一次听说人机竞赛。
And of course I said yes, for several reasons.	当然，我答应了。原因有几个，
One, because playing "Jeopardy" is a great time.	第一，因为我享受玩'危险'。
And at first, it was very low.	刚开始时，它是非常低的。
But then you see the line start to go up.	但是，后来那条线开始上升。
And I saw this line coming for me.	那条代表计算机的线，朝我而来。
We got to walk through his climate-controlled server room.	我们要走进有气候控制的服务器室。
You must come to it; you must make the pilgrimage.	你必须来见它；您必须来"朝拜"。
There was a big Watson logo in the middle of the stage.	在舞台中央，有一个大的沃森徽标。
But they were right. They were exactly right.	但，他们对了。他们完全正确。
And you could hear that little tick, tick, tick, tick.	你能听到嘀嗒、嘀嗒、嘀嗒、嘀嗒。
All I know is how it felt to be the guy put out of work.	但我知道，失去工作的感受。
And it was friggin' demoralizing. It was terrible.	那是沉重的精神打击，十分可怕。
The things we know are still important.	我们的知识，仍然很重要。
And it happens in real life all the time.	这样的例子在现实生活中时常发生。
That doesn't work. That's just annoying.	这不起作用，只能令人生厌。
Those movies are never about beautiful utopias.	这些电影总是讲恐怖故事，
I don't have to learn new things anymore."	我不需要再学习新的东西了"。
We can live in one of these two worlds.	我们有这两个世界可以选择。
Ladies and gentlemen, the choice is yours.	女士们先生们，选择是你的。
What you have here is an electronic cigarette.	现在你看到的是一只电子香烟。
Sometimes you just want to stand in the corner and stare out of the window.	有时你只想站在角落凝视窗外。
You both have too much time on your hands and not much money.	两者都属于有时间没闲钱的人。
And when it nuzzles the button, the electric shock stops.	每当它按下按钮，电流便会停止。
The other dog doesn't have the button.	另外一个狗没有这样一个按钮。
Generally the first dog can be relatively content.	一般来说第一条狗感觉还算满意，
The second dog lapses into complete depression.	但第二条狗则陷入完全的萎靡不振。
What costs us 10 pounds in a different context we may actually welcome.	但在另一种情况下它又可能被欢迎。
Because they are actually the same thing.	因为它们其实讲的是同一件事情。
I think psychological value is great to be absolutely honest.	说实话，我觉得心理价值非常重要。
You know my example of the Eurostar.	你知道我的欧洲之星的例子。
Red traffic lights have a countdown delay.	红色的交通灯有一个倒计时显示。
The Koreans, very assiduously, did test both.	韩国人测试了这两种方式。
I'm not asking for the complete primacy of one over the other.	我并不是说其中的一个应该特别重要
It's an innate thing called goal dilution.	这个很自然的想法叫做目标分散。
So we walk out of the shops with one of each.	所以我们每个都会买一个。
This is my suggestion for getting people to finish their course of antibiotics.	以下是为让人们服用抗生素的建议。
Quite often queues happen at the tolls.	收费站前很经常会排起长队。
Sometimes you get very, very severe queues.	有些时候队会非常，非常的长。
It could really change things quite significantly.	它真的可以大幅度的改变很多事情。
Here's a guy you all need to study.	这是一个你们都需要研究的人。
And so they're predominantly interested in psychology.	所以他们对心理学非常感兴趣。
Try this quick thought experiment.	试试看这个快速的思想实验。
And it's vital we understand this.	我们对它的理解非常重要。
But I'm British, that's the way we like it.	但我是英国人，我觉得这样挺好。
Nobody's having a better day down here because of that.	它可不会让下面经过的人更愉快
There are a lot of ways you can describe this.	有很多定义这个现状的方法，
You can call it suburban sprawl.	还可以管它叫"蔓延的市郊"
You can call it a technosis externality clusterfuck.	也可以把它叫做露馅的垃圾技术聚会
We're going to talk about that some more.	就这点我们可以再多说几句
We need better places in this country.	这个国家必须有更好的公共空间
It's a place worth caring about. It's well defined.	它值得我们爱护，有意义，
It is emphatically an outdoor public room.	它是一个强有力的室外房间
A public place so dismal that the winos don't even want to go there.	这样阴沉的地方连酒鬼都不想去
You know, we hire firms to design these things.	我们雇佣一个公司来专门设计这些
Because you know what the last word was, what the last sentence was of that meeting.	因为你知道最后一个词儿是什么
It's not civically rich enough for them to go down there.	那儿太冷清了，他们没兴趣
And that's it. Those are the four jobs of the street trees.	就是这样，这是行道树的四项作用
It becomes a cartoon of a country house, in a cartoon of the country.	变成了漫画乡间中的漫画乡间别墅
I don't have any eyes on the side of my head. I can't see."	我头上没长眼，我什么也看不见。"
Because -- notice the porch here.	因为——注意看这儿的门廊。
So they take the first one that comes along, often.	所以他们通常来什么用什么
So every effort is made to keep them within the building.	所以只能尽力把它们关在楼里
Forget it. It's not going to happen.	把它忘了吧，不会有的——
The age of the 3,000 mile Caesar salad is coming to an end.	三千里外的凯撒沙拉时代即将终结
And we should have started two days before yesterday.	而且大前天我们就应该开始干
Well, in point of fact, most of them are not going to make it.	事实上，他们中的大多数撑不到以后
We've got a lot of work to do.	有很多工作在等着我们去做
We're not ready for what's coming at us.	我们对即将面临的挑战还没准备好
So I urge you all to do what you can.	所以我强烈要求你们大家尽己所能
Life in the mid-21st century is going to be about living locally.	21世纪中期的生活将是本地生活
But soon the idea began spreading virally.	但是这个想法迅速传播开来了
And this is my postcard collection today.	这些是我收藏的所有明信片
I've found love. I'm happy."	我找到了爱,我很开心。"
"Your mic wasn't off during sound check.	"你在试音之后没有关掉麦克风
We all heard you pee."	我们都听到了你尿尿的声音。"
It's in my pocket right now."	它现在就在我的口袋里。"
It was the very bottom, the last secret in the long column.	并且把它放在了一大串秘密的最后
And I tried to act calm, not to give anything away.	于是我装作什么事也没发生
And he said, "She read it once and then she read it again."	"她读了一次，又读了一次"
And he emailed me this picture.	所以他就把这张照片传给了我
The other pictures are of my very ill grandmother.	其他的照片是我重病中的奶奶
My son's birth is on this camera.	这只相机见证了我儿子的出生
They can be shocking or silly or soulful.	可以是震撼,滑稽或者饱含深情
Voicemail recording: First saved voice message.	语音信箱记录:首条保存的语音信息
Have you ever sent yourself a postcard?	你自己给自己寄过明信片吗
And sometimes we make real plans.	有时候我们也做一些真正的计划。
And sometimes we just start building.	有时候我们直接从建造开始。
All materials are available for use.	我们可以运用所有的材料。
Three, two, one, go!	影片中:三，二，一，发射！
Forty-seven out of those 53 were unreplicable.	剩余47个实验则无法成功重复。
Now these are stories from basic science.	这是些基础科学界的故事。
So here is one example of how you approach it.	举个例子，你如何看待它。
This is a cancer at the core of evidence-based medicine.	这是循证医药学中的毒瘤。
And to me, this is research misconduct.	对我来说，这是学术不端行为。
And this is happening right now, today.	如今这样的情况还在发生。
The results were unavailable to them.	他们无法找到那些实验的结果。
But people didn't bother to use those registers.	但人们并没有乖乖来注册。
And so I think we can roll the video that we have.	我想我们可以开始播放了。
We know the universe is bigger than that which we can see.	我们知道宇宙比我们所看见的要大。
And we can network between domes and classrooms.	还可以在宿舍与教室之间联网。
So you're seeing the edge of the Earth.	所以你们看见的是地球的边缘。
We carry that in us.	我们将宇宙带到我们身边。
And that led to something which you probably do know.	这些都促成了"吉他英雄"的诞生，
This is how he's chosen to represent himself.	这是他选择的，代表自己的办法。
So, first of all, Dan, do you want to say hi to everyone and tell everyone who you are?	丹，先自我介绍一下，好吗？
So, you want to say a little bit about how you guys work?	怎么样，谈谈你们是怎么做的吧？
You know, what's his metaphor for performance?	再如，他用什么手法来演奏？
So he can use his infrared tracker to go directly into Hyperscore.	他用红外追踪器来操作软件。
So he can go in Hyperscore. You start out by making melodies and rhythms.	他使用了软件，从乐音和旋律开始，
And you're also going to notice a visual on the screen.	你还会看到荧屏上的视觉特效。
We asked one of our students to look at what the camera is measuring.	我的一位学生负责视觉采样。
You tie me to the mast, and I'm going to beg and plead.	你把我绑在桅杆上，我怎么央求
And no matter what I say, you cannot untie me from the mast.	不管说什么你都不要解开绳子
All right, so tie me to the mast."	好，现在把我绑上桅杆吧。"
Now just don't untie me no matter what."	不管我说什么都不能解开！"
Because there's two heads inside one person when you think about it.	你想想，人内心有两种状态
This is like Odysseus when he's hearing the song.	就象是奥德修斯他一听到这歌
He just thinks about the here and now and the immediate gratification.	只想着此时此刻和当下的满足
But then there's this other self, the future self.	但是另一个自我，未来的自我
So why do we need commitment devices?	那么为什么我们需要承诺手段呢？
It's off in the future. It's weak.	它还在远远的未来，没什么力量
There's nobody to stick up for the future self.	没人会为了未来自我而争辩
Because it's not that easy to get rid of five dollars.	因为要丢掉五块钱不那么容易
But then I thought, oh, I'm sending myself mixed messages.	但是转念一想，我这是在混淆视线
Because not writing is bad, but giving to charity is good.	因为不写作是坏事，但慈善是好事
So then I would kind of justify not writing by giving a gift.	这样赠予就把不写作变得合理了
Sometimes a good person would find it, sometimes a bad person would find it.	有时候是好人捡到有时候是坏人捡到
And so there's no way that this is going to work."	所以我今天肯定写不了。"
Now saving is a classic two selves problem.	储蓄是个典型的两个自我的问题
Whereas the future self wants the present self to save.	但是未来的自我要现在的自我储蓄
So this is a timely problem.	所以这是个时间跨度的问题
We look at the savings rate and it has been declining since the 1950s.	看看储蓄率自50年代以来一直下跌
Being down at the bottom means that you're struggling to make ends meet.	越往下也就是你得努力糊口
Now you can try to move your outcomes around.	你就可以把收入进行分配了
Here we see the face of the young subject on the left.	左边是我们测试对象的年轻的脸
And from the future self's point of view, everything is in reverse.	从未来的角度来看，一切都是相反的
The younger face is getting unhappy.	年轻时候的脸笑容越来越淡
We're going to see if this has an effect on what people do.	我们以此来看看人们是否会对此反应
Your decisions today are going to determine its well-being.	你现在的选择就决定了将来的生活
This is actually a picture of Hal, my coauthor.	这是我的合作者哈尔的照片
You might recognize him from the previous demos.	也许能从之前的演示里认出他来
I have the answer to a question that we've all asked.	我来回答一个大家都问过的问题。
But now we have the answer to our question.	我们现在有了一开始问题的答案。
That's the economic invisibility of nature.	这就是"自然界潜在的经济因素"。
Economics has become the currency of policy.	经济学已经成为政策的筹码。
It completely passes below the radar screen.	这一过程完全未被有意识地侦测到。
How bad can things get?	这种情况能变得多糟糕呢？
If it's yellow, it's 40 to 60 percent.	如果黄色，那么是40%到60%。
So now look at the different lens.	现在，我们换个角度看问题。
So is this just a story from South Thailand?	这种情况仅仅发生在泰国南部吗？
Sorry, this is a global story.	遗憾的是，全球都存在这个现象。
So clearly there was a problem with deforestation.	显然，森林减退带来了一定问题。
And I'm delighted that the Institute of Chartered Accountants in the U.K.	很高兴，英国的特许会计师协会
The European Union ETS is the main marketplace.	欧盟排放贸易体系是主要市场。
So we actually have some movement forward.	我们确实在向好的方面进展。
He was a man of many, many parts.	他是个由许多部分组成的人
He was an actor. You saw him act.	他是个演员。你们看过他的演出。
I also had the good fortune to be in those lectures, up in the balcony.	我也有幸听过他讲课，就在阳台上。
But the man had somehow a lot of room at the bottom.	但怎么说呢，他还留下了不少空间。
Well, not as big as his, but fairly big.	比他已经拥有的少些但绝对够多
And in fact, we did sometimes do physics together.	有时候我们的确一起讨论物理问题
Celebrity sandwiches was their thing.	"明星三明治"是他们的特色
He wasn't feeling too well, so he left a little bit early.	他感觉不太好所以早走了些
And Sidney and I were left there with the two philosophers.	就剩下了西德尼我还有那两个哲学家
And the amazing thing is these guys were flying.	令人惊讶的是他们俩兴高采烈
I think it may have been a special rapport that he and I had.	我觉得我们之间的关系还挺特殊的
I also liked the kind of intellectual macho games.	我也很喜欢男人的那些智斗游戏
He was a working man, had a fifth grade education.	他是个工人只受过小学五年级的教育
He taught me all sorts of things about mechanical things.	关于机械的事情他教了我很多很多
Being Dick, he, of course, wanted to check this.	作为狄克当然他想要确认一下这事
I don't know. Maybe. Who knows?	或许是这样吧　又有谁知道呢？
It was due to a Russian mathematical physicist, and it was a complicated theory.	有那么一套理论复杂的理论
I'll tell you what that theory was soon enough.	我等下就告诉你们那是什么理论
The helium atoms had to be very far apart.	氦原子之间必须要有很远的一段距离
The proton is obviously made of a whole bunch of little particles.	显然质子是由许多小粒子组成的
This was the thing the Feynman diagrams were for.	费曼图解法就是派这个用场的
The only problem was that Feynman diagrams are complicated.	唯一的问题在于费曼图解法很复杂
But you couldn't; they were just too complicated.	但如果算不出的话那它们就太复杂了
You could do a one loop diagram. Don't worry about one loop.	你可以画一圈图　一圈图不是问题
You see a frozen bunch of partons.	你看到的是一堆一动不动的部分子
You just get to think of it as a population of frozen partons.	你只要去想一大群一动不动的部分子
This was the key to analyzing these experiments.	这便是分析这些实验最关键的部分
How should we really honor Feynman?	该怎样真正给予费曼荣誉呢？
This brings us up to the time that I started consulting to Airstream.	这段时间我开始请教气流。
So we build a lot of things.	因此，我们建造了许多东西。
So, playing with fire.	因此，应该让孩子们去玩火。
Number two -- own a pocketknife.	第二件事—拥有一把小刀。
And it's a -- it's a powerful and empowering tool.	小刀是一个强大的万能工具。
And yeah, they're going to cut themselves.	但是，他们不免会用小刀伤到自己。
Number three -- throw a spear.	第三件事—玩扔长矛的游戏。
So those are great.	因此，这是一项非常好的活动。
Number five -- two-parter.	第五件事—由两部分组成。
Break the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.	首先要打破千年数字版权法。
I don't know why people think this.	我真不知道人们为何会这样想
But the dropout crisis is just the tip of an iceberg.	但辍学危机仅仅是冰山一角
And the reason is not that we're not spending enough money.	其原因不是我们没有投入足够的钱
Can I ask you, how many of you have got children of your own?	请问一下，在座各位多少人有孩子
I will make you a bet, and I am confident that I will win the bet.	我要跟你们打个赌我肯定能赌赢
I'm not here to argue against science and math.	我不是驳斥科学和数学的重要性
On the contrary, they're necessary but they're not sufficient.	正相反，它们是必需的，但不是全部
Children are not, for the most part, suffering from a psychological condition.	大多数的孩子并没有心理问题
They're suffering from childhood.	他们只是在忍受童年的煎熬而已
Curiosity is the engine of achievement.	好奇心是取得成就的能动力
Teachers are the lifeblood of the success of schools.	教师是学校能否取得成功的命脉
You see, in the end, education is about learning.	看吧，总而言之，教育讲的就是学习
If there's no learning going on, there's no education going on.	如果没有学习就谈不上教育
The whole point of education is to get people to learn.	教育的主旨就是引导人们去学习
"Your cholesterol is what I call Level Orange."	"你的胆固醇含量在橙色水平。"
And sit staring out the window with a bottle of Jack Daniels.	它也不会拿着酒瓶坐在窗前凝视远方
And you say, "Would you like to come for a walk?"	你问"要不要出去散散步啊？"
He says, "No, I'm fine.	它回答"不用了，我没事。
You go. I'll wait. But take pictures."	你去吧，我在这等你。记得拍照。"
Instead, what we have is a culture of standardization.	相反，我们的教育文化是标准定型的
Now, it doesn't have to be that way. It really doesn't.	其实不是非得这样做，不是的
That's one of the problems of the test.	这就是考试引发的一个问题
They don't look for other things that matter just as much.	人们会忽视同等重要的其他科目
Second, there is no standardized testing in Finland.	其次，在芬兰没有标准化考试
It's not what keeps them at their desks.	守在桌旁学习才能通过的考试
No. I think there's a population of around five million in Finland.	的确不能，芬兰人口只有大约五百万
But you can compare it to a state in America.	但可以拿它同美国的一个州来比较
Many states in America have fewer people in them than that.	在美国许多州的人口比芬兰的要少
One is this: They individualize teaching and learning.	做法之一是，他们将教学个性化
Investing in professional development is not a cost.	投资教育专业的发展不是单纯的花费
You have to put it back to the people.	政府必须把决定权交还给人们
There is wonderful work happening in this country.	美国的教育工作还是很出色的
The point is that education is not a mechanical system.	因为教育不是机械化的系统
Not far from where I live is a place called Death Valley.	离我家不远处，有个地方叫死亡谷
In the winter of 2004, it rained in Death Valley.	2004年冬天，死亡谷却下起了雨
There's a wonderful quote from Benjamin Franklin.	在此引用本杰明富兰克林的一句格言
And it's not just aging that causes arthritis.	这并不是因为年老而引起的疾病
Let's consider an alternative path.	让我们一起考虑一个替代方法
I'm not ready for joint replacement."	我并没有做好换关节的准备
But what happens for your ligament when I need an intact ligament?	但是，当你需要一个完整的韧带时
I can't grind it up in a blender.	我不能将其在搅拌机里将其磨碎
So what about the next step?	那么我们的下一步将会做什么
Well here's how we're going to do it.	这就是我们如何做这件事情
There's a benefit of 400 million years of ambulation.	这个利益是他们有四亿年的移动历史
We can do it as an outpatient procedure.	我们可以将其发展为门诊式的程序
So why did the printing press succeed?	那么印刷术是怎么成功的？
This is an original page of a Guttenberg Bible.	这是最初的谷登堡版圣经的一页
But why is this so interesting? Here's the quick story.	但这有趣在哪？简单地讲是这样的
So, I am married to the most wonderful woman in the world.	我娶到了世界上最完美的女人
There is a glass bridge that you walk across that's suspended in space.	这是用来供人走的玻璃桥悬空的
How do we create?	那么我们如何进行创造呢？
And that's really what discovery and imagination is all about.	这也是探索发现和想象的意义
And they're connected primarily because of this here.	而不只是因为他们都在这儿
You see, this is a human brain model, OK?	这是一个人脑模型，是吧？
And it's rare, because we never really get to see a brain.	这很稀有，因为我们不总能看见人脑
We get to see a skull. But there it is.	我们通常看到头骨。但它就在这儿了
And what does a lump of coal have to do with the Internet?	那么一块煤与网络有什么联系呢?
I became an inventor by accident.	我能成为一个发明家，纯属偶然
Golly, I'm just totally losing it.	天啊，我今天完全不在状态
My 44th patent; about the 15th invention.	我的第44个专利，第15个发明
When Edison invented the light bulb, pretty much looked like this.	爱迪生发明的灯泡，和这个差不多
A little bit of differential, but not much.	有一点点差别，但不是很多
I got this waterfall I recorded in my back yard.	这是我在我家后院录的声音
But they want to use it -- seriously.	但是他们还是想使用这些发明，真的
I just happened to get my education in a little different way.	我只是恰巧通过另一种方式接受教育
And, you know, if the sound isn't there, the sale typically isn't made.	大家知道，广告是促销的有效手段
ATMs that talk to you; nobody else hears it.	ATM机和你对话时，别人无法听到
It's not any more pricey than regular electronics.	相比家用电器，这一点都不贵
It also works for transmitting and communicating data.	它还可以应用于数据的传送和通信
So, I've been really lucky as an inventor.	因此作为一名发明者，我很幸运
I'm the happiest guy you're ever going to meet.	我是你们遇到的最开心的人
Can never tell if it's on.	永远不知道是开着还是关着
I've got a Coke can opening that's right in your head; that's really cool.	我在你脑袋里面打开了可乐瓶太酷了
Let me first explain how Rezero actually keeps his balance.	首先先解释下它是如何保持平衡的
You may have wondered what happens if I give the robot a little push.	如果我推它一下会有什么反应呢
In this mode, he's trying to maintain his position.	这个模式下它会尝试回归原位
In the next mode, we can get Rezero to follow a person.	下一个模式Rezero跟着人走
This works with a laser sensor that's mounted on top of Rezero.	这是通过它顶端的传感器来做到的
With the same method, we can also get him to circle a person.	类似的我们也能让它围着一个人转
Now, what's the use of this technology?	那么这个技术的使用价值是什么？
Rezero could be used in exhibitions or parks.	Rezero可以在展示会和公园里
And of course, who wouldn't like to take a ride on one of these.	当然谁不想骑着它遛遛弯儿呢
But there's also a certain beauty within this technology.	但是这项技术本身就带着美而来
Lower the mask, dear dentist, lower the mask."	请拉下面罩亲爱的牙医请拉下面罩
These days, I call myself a graphic artist.	现在，我称自己为平面艺术家
The ego is not supposed to be involved in graphic design.	自我并不应该包含在平面设计作品中
So I exist somewhat outside of the mainstream of design thinking.	所以我创造了非主流的设计思维
This is a scientific diagram, by the way.	顺便一提，有一个科学图表
This is a piece that I did for The Guardian newspaper in the U.K.	这是我为英国卫报做的一个作品
I've been eating cereal for breakfast all of my life.	在我的一生中我一直吃麦片作早餐
This is what you can do with some household tinfoil.	你可以用家用锡箔体现艺术
And this is it -- just to give you and me a moment to catch up.	只为给你一点时间去跟上我的思路
I reduced my mailing list to 150 people.	我将名单上的人数减少到150人
I got an almost 100 percent response rate.	我得到了几乎百分之百的回复率
And I specifically wrote four pages that don't connect.	我特意写了没有关联的四页纸
I'm certain I can see you blushing.	我确信我可以看到你在脸红
I'm just really, really thrilled with them.	看到这些卡片我感到非常激动
And one of the things that I've been thinking about recently is what is worth while.	我最近想的一件事十分有价值
Working in the commercial world, this is something that I do have to struggle with at times.	我要挣扎的工作在商业世界中
And I thank you for allowing me to show it to you.	感谢你们允许我将这一切展示给你
So that's the vision that I've been thinking about.	这就是我曾想到过的愿景。
And you can do it the same, over and over again."	你能同样进行，并不断重复。"
And so I give this out to thousands of people.	我把这个发给了数以千计的人。
Now this is a high-powered battery that we grew in my lab.	这是我们在实验室培育的高能电池。
So one part of the virus grabs a carbon nanotube.	病毒的一部分抓住一个碳纳米管。
And then it wires itself to the current collector.	然后它把自己缠绕成集电器。
We're able to do this also with catalysis.	我们也能通过催化作用做到这些。
This is the example of photocatalytic splitting of water.	这是光触媒分离水的例子。
My students promised me it would work.	我的学生对我保证说它能运作。
The last example are solar cells.	最后一个例子是太阳能电池。
You can also do this with solar cells.	也可以这样制造太阳能电池。
And so these companies, they build offices.	于是，各个公司就建造了办公楼。
One is kind of a place or a location or a room.	一种回答是到某个地方或者是房间。
You look back on your day, and you're like, I got nothing done today.	每天回顾，发现什么事都没做。
I sat at my desk. I used my expensive computer.	我坐在书桌前，用着昂贵的电脑，
I went to these meetings I was asked to go to.	参见各种上头要求参加的会议。
But I didn't actually do anything.	但事实上，我什么都没有做。
I just did tasks.	我只是做些"琐事"而已。
Two hours? One, maybe?	2个小时？也许只有一个小时吧。
I don't think anyone would say yes.	我觉得应该没人会说睡得好。
We all have to improve on this sort of thing.	但是我们要改善这种情形，
"I can't let someone work at home.	"我不会允许员工在家里工作。
It turns out that those aren't the things that are really distracting.	但其实这些事并不会真的干扰你。
You decide when you want to be distracted by the TV.	你可以自己决定什么时候看电视；
You decide when you want to go downstairs or go for a walk.	决定什么时候下楼、散步。
Some of you may work at places where you can't get to these certain sites.	有些办公地甚至打开不了这些网站。
Those aren't the real problems in the office.	这些根本不是问题的关键所在。
Those are the real problems in the modern office today.	这些才是现今办公室里问题的所在，
I don't care what you're doing.	我不关心你们现在在做什么。
What if they're thinking about something important?	要是他们正在思考重要的事情呢？
Meetings are places to go to talk about things you're supposed to be doing later.	开会是为了商讨公司以后的计划。
So one meeting tends to lead to another meeting and tends to lead to another meeting.	一个又一个开不完的会议。
We've all heard of the casual Friday thing.	我们都听过星期五是随意工作日。
I don't know if people still do that.	我不知道大家是否还在这么做。
But how about "no-talk Thursdays?"	那么不妨设定星期四为无交谈日？
And if you try that, I think you'll find that you agree.	如果你试着做了，你会同意这一点。
And maybe, hopefully you can do it more often.	也许，你可以多实行几次。
And I think it'll all pay off in the end.	这样，我觉得最后一定会有收获的。
This is my office. It's out there.	这就是我的办公室，到处都是
And it'll take about another two years to connect the next billion after that.	再过2年将会有另10亿人加入他们
It's kind of like stalking with permission.	这好像是经过批准的跟踪一样
And it turns out that people carry a lot of stuff.	我们发现我们随身带很多东西
So why are these things so important in our lives?	为什么这些物品对我们那么重要呢
And they value that connectivity.	他们也为此链接增加了价值
But actually, you can do this kind of stuff with PCs.	其实，电脑也可以做这事儿
But -- and it's a pretty big but -- we forget.	虽然重要，但是我们有时候会忘记
And you turn around, and you look back into the space, and some people talk aloud.	你会转身朝屋里看有些人边看还边叫
It's where you expect to find stuff.	比如你要找某些东西的时候
But is, in fact, about the art of delegation.	但其实这是一种分配工作的艺术
OK, there's two things I like about this.	所以整个过程中有两点我特别喜欢
So, it turns out the street is a never-ending source of inspiration for us.	所以大街小巷永远是个灵感的源头
They'll probably give you three new ones, right?	他们应该会给你3个新的不是吗？
They reverse-engineer manuals.	用手工破解这些手机的系统
It challenges the norms.	也是对标准规格的一种挑战
And I know what you're asking -- did I test it?	我知道你会问，难道你自己试用过了
I'm not going to answer that, OK.	我不会回答你这个问题好吧
This is a pair of underpants from -- -- from Tibet.	这是一条笑从西藏买来的内裤
This doesn't have house numbers. This has phone numbers.	这些不是门牌而是电话号码
So what does it mean when people's identity is mobile?	难道别人用手机来辨认谁是谁？
When those extra three billion people's identity is mobile, it isn't fixed?	难道3亿人真的用手机号码来认人吗
And then I go to this picture here, which is the one that I started with.	再来看一些照片，我拍的第一张照片
So, the first thing is the immediacy of ideas, the speed at which ideas go around.	第一是构想的直观性构想酝酿的速度
In ways that, despite our resources, they can do it better than us.	他们甚至能比我们做的更好
And the last thing is that -- actually, the direction of the conversation.	最后一点，就是这次谈论的重点
So thank you very, very much.	所以非常非常感谢你们今天的参与
But the guy, here, on the right, he's doing the stretch.	但是在右边的人他在做伸手的动作
Or, my favorite, the "Love you; mean it."	或者，我最喜欢的"我真的爱你"。
Or, this one, coming to us from India.	还有这一个，这个图片来自印度
And so that's the request I have for everybody in this room.	这就是我对在做各位的请求。
Your heart gets more blood flow.	你的心脏供血量也会增大，
These differences were highly significant.	这是一个非常显著的差异。
Half of guys who smoke are impotent.	男性吸烟者中有一半是性无能者，
How sexy is that?	事情变得不那么性感了吧？
And now his shoulder says, "Wino forever."	现在他肩膀的纹身是"永远的酒鬼"
I made a lot of mistakes and dumb decisions, of course.	我做过很多错事和傻事这是当然的
It somehow got me to where I am in life right now.	这就是我成为现在的我的原因
So let's start off by defining some terms.	首先让我们定义一下几个词语
It requires, first of all, agency -- we had to make a decision in the first place.	首先是对象－我们曾经作出个决定
I should have gone through that yellow light."	我不应该在那个黄灯停下来"
These are the classic conditions that create regret.	这是典型会导致后悔的场景
Odds are, you're not going to care in five years.	因为你五年之内都不会在意这个的
When I went home that night after getting my tattoo, I basically stayed up all night.	当我那晚纹了身回家时我一夜没睡
And for the first several hours, there was exactly one thought in my head.	头几个小时我脑子里只有一个念头
This is an unbelievably primitive emotional response.	这是个令人难以置信的初始情绪
The fourth component here is that regret is what psychologists call perseverative.	第四波就是心理学家所谓的表现执拗
In point of fact, no insurance covers acts of idiocy.	没有什么保险保自己干的蠢事
This is obviously an incredibly painful experience.	这很明显是个十分痛苦的经历
Sometimes instead of Control-Z, we actually have zero control.	有时候不是撤消而是无法控制
Or you can just have an incredibly embarrassing day at work.	或者就是在办公室里羞愧地想钻地洞
Now obviously, those kinds of regrets are incredibly piercing and enduring.	很显然那些遗憾会无比痛苦且持久
And the first of these is to take some comfort in its universality.	第一就是意识到它的普遍性
And that's just regret about tattoos.	而这只不过是后悔纹了身而已
Actually, you know what, I should warn you, you're going to be disappointed.	不过我得先声明一下你们可能会失望
When other people see my tattoo, for the most part they like how it looks.	别人看到我的纹身基本上都还挺喜欢
And as I said earlier, I'm a perfectionist.	正如我之前所说我是个完美主义者
I can guess what some of you are thinking.	我知道你们有些人会怎么想
And I thought it might serve as a kind of permanent mnemonic device.	我想这个会变成我永久的记忆
It reminds us that we know we can do better.	而是提醒我们可以做得更好
It is also unstable.	与此同时，它又极不稳定。
All easier said than done.	但这一切都是说起来容易做起来难。
Half of them gave over the Internet.	其中一半是通过互联网捐赠的。
The median contribution was somewhere around 57 dollars.	捐款的中位数是在57美元左右。
We just reorganized the markets.	我们因此重新整顿了市场。
But the money is there to reach others.	但就算我们有这些财力来帮助人们，
Will it provide high quality care?	能发展提供高质量的医疗保健吗？
That's lower than the figure in the United States.	这甚至低于美国的数据——
Thank you and God bless you.	谢谢你们。上帝保佑大家。
I had a really hard time in school.	所以我在上学时相当的困难。
It has an intact Hindu culture.	岛上的文化是原汁原味的印度教。
Roger Ebert: These are my words, but this is not my voice.	这些是我在说话，但却不是我的声音
I saw myself in the mirror and I looked pretty good.	我看着镜子中的自己看起来非常好
Suddenly, I had an episode of catastrophic bleeding.	就在那时，不幸的事情发生了
"It was the clearest I could find.	"那是我当时能找到的最清晰的声音
There was something comforting about a voice that was not my own.	如果声音不是我自己的就会觉得还好
But I decided then to just give it a try.	但是后来我还是决定试一试
And it sounded like me, it really did.	那些听起来很像我，真的确实很像
There was a reason for that; it was me.	那是有原因的;因为那就是以前的我
I'll let you hear a sample of that voice.	我来举个例子说明那种语气
This is the first version of my computer voice.	这是第一个版本的电脑声音
When I type anything, this voice will speak whatever I type.	我输入什么它就说出相应的话
When I read something, it will read in my voice.	我读什么他也能用我的声音读什么
This is the first voice they've created for an individual.	这是他们第一次为个人专门开发声音
That has mostly happened in my lifetime.	这些大部分都在我的一生中发生过
But I'm not here from the Chamber of Commerce.	当然我可不是他们商会派来这里的
All of this has happened in my lifetime.	所有的这一切变革我都经历过
It is unimaginable what will happen next.	真是很难想象以后还会发生什么
I cannot speak; I can only type so fast.	我无法说话我只能快速的打字
They give me a way to speak.	他们重新赋予了我说话的能力
People talk loudly and slowly to me.	"人们大声并且慢慢的对我说话
There are people who don't want to make eye contact.	还有些人不想与我进行目光的交流"
You should never let your wife read something like this.	你真不应该让你的夫人读这个
We don't enjoy a reminder of our own fragile mortality.	我们会很伤感于生命的脆弱
So what can we do?	所以，我们还能怎么办呢?
The front page became our signature.	我们报纸的头版变成了我们的特色。
I wanted to make posters, not newspapers.	我想设计的是海报，不是报纸，
Not even magazines: posters.	甚至也不是杂志，就是海报。
Soon it started to bring results.	不久我们就看到了具体的成果。
But the real hit was in Bulgaria.	但最大的爆冲是在保加利亚。
Design was just a part of the process.	设计只是过程中的一部份，
My bosses, in the beginning, were very surprised.	我的老板们在刚开始时都很惊讶，
Give power to designers.	所以，请给予设计这样的职权吧!
You just need inspiration, vision and determination.	你只是需要启发、愿景和决心。
He is here, and you're not going to take him.	他今晚在这里，但你们休想逮捕他
My left leg got caught up in the wheel well -- spun it around.	我的左腿被车轮缠上卷进了车轮
Your aorta comes up behind your heart.	你的大动脉移到了心脏后面
I was blind, I couldn't speak, and I couldn't walk.	我失明了，并且不能说话无法走路
And in fact, they started to call me a Gomer.	其实，他们已经管我叫逝者
That's another story we won't even get into.	这是另外一个故事了，我们就不讲了
Some things worked, some things didn't.	有些东西管用，有些却没有
So eventually, the hospital decided it was time for me to go.	最终，医院做出决定我该出院了
Everybody lost faith in me being able to recover.	所有的人对我的康复都失去了信心
And I needed that wisdom at that moment in my life.	而那时我正好需要人生的智慧
At that point, I had gained four pounds, so I was 68 lbs.	那时，我长了3斤所以我是61斤重
She is sleeping in the corner of this apartment."	她睡在这个公寓的角落。"
And then the next thing that I needed was a makeover.	下一个我需要的是改变外观
So I acted like a two-year-old and refused to work.	所以我像一个两岁的孩子拒绝去做
But the men had a better idea.	但是他们有一个更好的主意
The redundancy was actually good for me.	对我来说这件多余的事是件好事
And every time I approached the corner or the curb I would panic.	每次我接近路口或路牙我就会恐慌
And the second one was actually trying to figure out how to cross that street.	另外一个是弄清楚该如何穿过马路
If it's hit, don't cross the street."	如果它被撞了，就别过。"
They removed a hematoma from behind my eye.	他们从我的眼后取出了一个血肿
He was a well-known revolutionary in Paris at the time.	他当时在巴黎是一个著名的革命者。
But the academicians couldn't understand anything that he wrote.	但院士们弄不懂他写的任何东西。
Now, symmetry is almost nature's language.	现今，对称性几乎是大自然的语言。
Artists too love to play around with symmetry.	艺术家也喜欢摆弄对称性。
They also have a slightly more ambiguous relationship with it.	他们与对称性有一些更模糊的关系。
And he took me up to the temples in Nikko.	他带我到日光市的寺庙去。
This is a palace celebrating symmetry.	这是一座歌颂对称性的宫殿。
I like to describe it as the magic trick moves.	我喜欢把这形容为神奇的假动作。
I do something, put it back down again.	我动下它，再把它放回到原处。
So, let's take these two symmetrical objects here.	那让我们把这两个对称物放到这儿。
Let's take the twisted six-pointed starfish.	拿这个扭曲了的六角海星来说。
It seems mad to talk about nothing.	什么都没有谈论看起来很疯狂。
So both of these objects have six symmetries.	因此，这些物体都有六种对称。
But let's go back down to symmetries that I got for these two objects.	让我们回到这两个物体的对称性上。
Now it matters what order you do the operations in.	现在看来这与你操作它的顺序有关。
I think this is an amazing development.	我觉得这是一个惊人的发展。
And all the tiles match up again.	那么所有的瓦片又重新匹配了。
And the half a turn is halfway between the six pointed stars.	旋转半圈时离六角星交汇还有一半。
And it's a symmetry we call 6-3-2.	这个对称性我们称之为6-3-2。
Here is another example in the Alhambra.	另一个阿尔罕布拉的例子。
And it turns out they almost did.	结果是他们几乎都发现了。
But these are things that we can see.	但这些都是我们可以看到的。
Now, this new symmetrical object does not have a name yet.	现在这个新的对称物还没有名字。
Okay, I'm going to sort you out.	好吧，我来给你们整理一下。
60 digits or more, you've got to sit down.	六十或六十多位数的，你必须坐下。
20 digits or less, sit down.	二十位数或二十位以下的，坐下。
Two? So you should have sat down earlier.	两个？那你早就该坐下了。
Because this one. I think there were a few here.	因为这一个。我想应该有一些人。
21. Okay good. How many do you have in yours?	21。好的，很好。你的是多少位？
So now I need to name this object.	那么现在我需要给这个物体命名。
First of all, worse nutrition, maybe shorter life spans.	首先，更糟的营养也许更短的生命
It was simply awful for women.	农业规模化对于女性来说非常糟糕
And we are also changing our teeth right now.	我们现在也在改变着我们的牙齿
That's not necessarily a bad unintended consequence.	这未必就是不好的无意识后果
So were the followers of Hippocrates.	因此他们都是希波克拉底的追随者
What we find is, no longer simple tools, but systems.	那就是不再是单一工具而是系统
The Paige typesetter had 18,000 parts.	佩奇排字机有一万八千个部件
The patent had 64 pages of text and 271 figures.	专利有64页文字和271张图表
A number of pharmaceutical companies were working on it.	当时的许多制药厂都在生产
They were working on it independently, and they weren't getting anywhere.	他们都在独立生产产量很有限
So they reformulated the bactericide.	于是他们重新制造了杀菌剂
We need to see what they can do for us.	我们要看到他可以为我们做什么
We need to learn from those figures that I mentioned.	我们需要从我提到的那些图表中学习
He had to have some errors. He had to have some mistakes.	他犯了些错误，是他的过失
And he learned meticulously from his mistakes.	然后他非常仔细的从错误中吸取经验
You're supposed to learn this stuff how?	你应该学会这些。怎样学？
The space bar scrolls down one page.	空格键向下滚动一个页面。
So space bar to scroll down one page.	所以空格键，向下滚动一个页面。
It works in every browser on every kind of computer.	在所有电脑的浏览器上，它都有效。
You make the text larger with each tap.	每次按键，字就会更大一些。
Go space, space. It is totally amazing.	按下空格，空格，真是神奇。
I didn't say these were going to be perfect.	我没说这个技巧是完美的。
There's the definition as you type.	你的词打好了定义就会出来。
It's also a complete FAA database.	它也是一个完整的FAA数据库。
It's also a unit and currency conversion.	它也是一个单位、货币转化器。
Just type it into the box, and there's your answer.	只要输入到框，那就是你所要找的。
Also, you can go double click, drag to highlight in one-word increments as you drag.	还有，你能双击，拖曳高亮显示
It's kind of like a new approach to desktop computing.	这是一种电脑桌面设计的新思路。
And that's BumpTop. Thanks!	这就是BumpTop。谢谢大家！
I'd like to share with you a little bit of me playing my life.	我想与你们分享一些我的演奏人生。
I don't know where we are now.	我不知道我们现在在哪儿。
This is the Hang Seng index for Hong Kong.	这是为香港恒生指数制作的。
And I said, "So what were you doing?"	我说道，"你们都做些什么？"
What do you do when you grow up?"	你长大后，你想要做什么？"
Because those had been in the news lately.	因为这已经在最近的新闻里了。
And I said, "What's the black box for Wall Street?"	我说，"华尔街的黑盒子是什么？"
And it's also sometimes called algo trading, algorithmic trading."	也被称为算法交易，算法交易。"
And all of that's great, and it's fine.	这一切太伟大了，太棒了。
Nobody had any control over what was actually happening.	对那天所发生的大家束手无策。
These aren't financial stats; this is culture.	不是金融统计；这是文化。
These are two algorithms competing for your living room.	有两种算法在争夺你的客厅。
It's super-real and it's happening around you.	这是超现实，它就发生在你周围。
And of course, it is, but it's distributed from places.	当然，它就是，但分布于不同地点。
And this is really where the wires come right up into the city.	这是线缆真正进入这座城市的地方。
Unfortunately, we have our work cut out for us.	不幸地是，我们面前困难重重。
This is some mathematicians at MIT.	这是MIT的一些数学家制作的。
And the truth is I don't really understand a lot of what they're talking about.	我并不太明白他们所谈论的。
Now there are all kinds of paper towel dispensers.	我们四周有多种擦手纸供应机
There's the one that cuts it, that you have to tear off.	这种是分好格的，但是需要手动撕取
The fact is, you can do it all with one towel.	但实际情况却是只需用一张
JS: Now, let's all say it together. Shake. Fold.	现在，我们一起来说——抖，折
But that's just safety.	不过这只是从安全角度考虑
Small roundabouts are starting to appear.	小型环状交叉路也开始出现
I mean, why is there that stop sign in each direction?	为什么要在每个方向装路标呢？
Can that be accomplished with existing signs?	现有的条件下能做到这一点吗？
So, what the world needs now is a new type of sign.	所以我们需要的是新型信号
And it merges the stop sign and yield signs.	是"停"和"让"的综合体
So, now that you are all "Road Scholars" ...	那大家现在都是道路专家了
This one is more than 400 years old.	我们看到的这一个有四百多年的历史
I would come home with my clothes reeking of woodsmoke.	回到家里时，衣服上都是烟味
Raku is a wonderful metaphor for the process of creativity.	乐烧是创造过程的一个美妙比喻
Mira Nair: In this little town, there were like 2,000 temples.	小镇里，大约有2000多个寺庙
Julie Burstein: Isn't that a wonderful story?	这难道不是一个奇妙的故事吗？
And I thought, "I'm not going to be able to do that painting."	我自觉自己不能画到这样的境界
He makes us the subject of his art.	他把我们也包含在他的作品里面
There's a fourth embrace, and it's the hardest.	这是第四个方面，也是最难的一面
That's a tough space to stand in.	这是一个心理中艰难的空间站
And I thought, "I'm gonna make that record.	我想，"我一定要记录下来
My office was just a few blocks away.	我的办公室也离世贸大厦不远
This girl right here knows exactly what I'm talking about.	那位姑娘完全了解我在说什么。
He just kind of held the lollipop out like this."	他是这样把棒棒糖递给我的。"
Here's the kicker. I don't remember that.	意外的是，我不记得这件事。
And my call to action today is that we need to get over that.	今天我号召大家克服这一点。
And in many ways, it always has been.	从很多方面看，它总是这样。
When I make an incision inside a patient's body, it's dark.	给病人体内动手术时，体内是黑暗的
And do you know where the operating room is?	你知道手术室建在哪里吗？
So nowadays in the operating room, we no longer need to use sunlight.	现在的手术室不再用自然光了，
And this is what I think is the magic of fluorescence.	这就是我觉得荧光的神奇之处。
It's done, it's out, you're cured of cancer.	动了手术，取出来，癌症被治好了。
This is how we excise cancers.	这就是我们治疗癌症的方法。
We've made a good job. We've taken it out.	很好，我们把肿瘤取出来了。
In the meanwhile, the patient's on the operating room table.	同时，病人还躺在手术台上。
So we go back and we do that again, and again.	所以我们回头再干，一次又一次。
And this whole process: "Okay you're done.	这就是整个过程。"好了，完成了。
There's still cancer in your patient."	你的病人身上还有肿瘤。"
So they added two additional components.	之后他们又加了两个附加组件
The light that the fluorescence emits can go through tissue.	荧光发出的亮光可以穿透组织。
And this works for metastatic lymph nodes also.	这种方法也用于治疗淋巴结转移癌。
Anesthesiologists, surgeons are waiting around.	麻醉医师，手术医生都等在周围。
You see a lot of little, roundish bumps there.	你看这里有许多小小圆圆的肿块。
So in surgery, it's important to know what to cut out.	在手术中重要的是要知道切割什么
And at first this didn't get a lot of support.	刚开始，没有很多人支持我。
We haven't had that many complications."	我们没有那么多的并发症嘛。"
And he brought his whole team with him.	他把他的整个队伍带来了。
So there's that teamwork thing again.	所以我们又是进行团队研究，
We've been able to see every single nerve.	我们可以看到每一根神经，
When we put these two probes together ...	当我们把两根探针放到一起时。。。
What about the nerve that's going into this tumor?	那么这个肿瘤里的神经呢？
That white portion there is easy to see.	那个白色的部分很容易看到
I'd like to leave you with this final thought.	最后，我想和大家分享的是
Successful innovation is not a single breakthrough.	成功的创新不是来自某一次的突破，
And they are brought inside by humans and other creatures.	或者是被人类或者其他生物带进室内
And we looked at three different types of rooms.	接着，我们观察三个不同的房间
And we also sampled the outdoor air.	然后我们又取样了室外空气
And this is because we're all constantly shedding microbes.	这是因为我们随时都在脱落着微生物
New ones are being discovered everyday.	每天都会有发现新型的细胞。
So how are we going to figure out what this circuit does?	我们将如何解释这些回路的运作呢？
And that's a story I'm going to tell you about today.	这就是今天我要告诉大家的故事。
So these molecules are called channelrhodopsins.	这些分子被叫做槽型视紫质
You take this DNA and you put it into a neuron.	你提取出DNA并注入到神经元中
The brain will do more of whatever got that reward.	大脑就会为了奖励竭尽全力
And he'll do that hundreds and hundreds of times.	那它就会为此重复千上百次
This goes back to the Pavlovian days.	那就回到了巴甫洛夫的时代
The shock isn't painful, but it's a little annoying.	电极并不疼痛，但是有点烦人
Let's give an example of where we think this is going to go.	举个例子来说明具体的情况
I already told you that electrical stimulators are not uncommon.	我曾说过，电击器并不普遍
And the retina, of course, is a complex structure.	我们的视网膜是个很复杂的结构
Now let's zoom in on it here, so we can see it in more detail.	我们来放大，仔细研究一下
On the other hand, light can still get into the eye.	但是，光还是能进入眼球的
He's swimming down every avenue until he finally gets to the platform.	它游过了每条分支最终才找到了平台
So he's not using vision to do it.	所以它没有利用视觉来解决这问题
And it's a picture we've seen several times.	其实这是一张我们见过多次的照片
And I kind of ruminated on that for a couple of days.	好多天里我都陷入这样的沉思
If they did, it probably was right there at Ground Zero.	如果真有，它可能就是世贸中心。
Everybody contributes a little bit.	每人都对它们都有一点贡献
This is not the future King of England, although it looks like it.	这不是未来英伦之王，虽然看起来像
But it's still a very one-to-one kind of relationship.	但这依然只是一对一的关系
So there's this collective decision-making that's going on.	所以这是即时的群体决策。
And these are looking in the blog world and the world of weblogs.	它关注的是整个博客世界。
He's analyzed basically all the weblogs out there that he's tracking.	简单的说，就是分析他追踪所有博客
You can also rank it by the latest posts.	也可以根据更新的帖子排名
And in fact, I think that's not entirely true anymore.	但我不认为这个理论完全正确
Well, you know, we should expect to see that.	当然我们可以预估到它的发生
But the interesting thing is, you can broaden the search a little bit.	好玩的是，如果你把搜索扩展一点
So Dennett's in the lead a little bit there.	所以Dannett领先一点点。
That's Britney Spears. I mean, you know, OK, interesting.	这是那个年代的'艳照门'。
As a filmmaker, it worried me.	身为电影制作者，我深感忧虑
As a human being, it puts the fear of God in me.	身为人类的一员，我深感恐惧
It was an education of the most profound and transformative kind.	这是最有深远影响的教育方式
And those without friends started making them.	那些没有朋友的孩子开始结交朋友
And the stories they held provided a shared experience.	它们讲述的故事提供了共通的经历
What would they do under the same conditions?	在相同的情景中他们会怎么做?
I have an aunt who is a wonderful storyteller.	我有一个很会说故事的姑姑
He was never right again.	他的人生再也没有上过正道
And his story was hushed as he assimilated.	他的故事也随着他被同化而尘封
But within the reels lie purpose and meaning.	但电影的核心存在着目的和意义
They are neither feral nor myopically self-absorbed.	他们既不野蛮也不短视自私
We're not talking each other. We're facing forward.	我们什么也不说，就是向前走。
When the person in front of me slows down.	走在我前面的人突然减慢了速度。
And so I'm watching him, and he slows down, and finally he stops.	我看见他放慢了速度，然后停下了。
So right now, you're doing just fine.	所以，你们现在都做得挺好。
Now working memory has four basic components.	短期记忆有四个基本元素。
They're also able to reason at high levels.	他们善于提出深层次的问题。
In fact it's -- -- exactly.	事实上它等于————完全正确。
Now don't get me wrong, working memory is awesome.	别搞错，短期记忆是很不简单的。
It allows us to make sense of the world around us.	它让我们理解我们周围的世界。
It allows us to problem-solve, critical think.	它让我们解决问题，慎重思考。
Gotta make sure we're getting what we're looking for.	要确保我们知道我们要找的是什么。
You go back to that original room.	你就回到原来的那个房间去想想。
Have you ever forgotten your keys?	你曾经忘记过你的钥匙吧？
So we need to think about, well, do I agree with him?	我们需要考虑，嗯，我同意他吗？
It's very positive.	但它其实有非常积极的意义。
The last one is organization and support.	最后一个就是组织和支持。
Everything we do is an approximation of sophistication.	我们做的一切都是一点点趋向成熟。
Well, in my world, this is a rubber duck.	在我的世界，这是个塑料鸭。
Henry James would be proud.	亨利詹姆斯将会感到骄傲。
But I don't know that that's the common debate.	但是我不知道这是个常见的争论。
And so we start our designs with that question.	因此我们以这个问题开始设计。
What don't you like about this?	这句话中你有不喜欢的地方吗？
We see the flows of materials in a rather terrifying prospect.	我们看到材料流的前景可虑。
On the other hand, we see great signs of hope.	另方面，我们看到希望的大好迹象。
We started asking manufacturers what were in their materials.	我们开始问生产商他们材料的成分。
We're adding life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.	我们加上生命、自由和追求幸福。
They get fit together, and then they compete.	他们一起锻练体能，然后竞争。
Technical nutrition will be in an order of magnitude of biological nutrition.	技术养分将是生物养分的十倍量。
Wear your old shoes in, your new shoes out.	穿你的旧鞋来，换新鞋回去。
And this is our project for Ford Motor Company.	这是我们为福特汽车公司做的项目，
They'll have cities with no energy and no food.	他们的城市将没有能源也没有食物。
It's a rubber stamp grid that they laid right on that landscape.	那好像是在地景上盖个橡皮格子章。
We've lifted the earth up onto the roofs.	我们把土地抬高到屋顶上。
The farmers have little bridges to get from one roof to the next.	农民们有小桥能在屋顶间来回穿梭。
And so this is the existing city, and this is the new city.	这是现有城市，而这是新城市。
You think about the largest IKEA store you've ever been in.	想想你去过的最大的宜家家具吧
How many hard drives can you fit in an IKEA store?	想想你能在宜家塞进多少硬盘设备吧
Right? It's pretty big.	是吧？数目的确非常巨大！
In fact, 96 percent of the planet are foreigners.	事实上，这个星球上96%都是老外
So that's basically perfectly safe, uncrackable.	它可以说是绝密的，无懈可击
Yet we have these files.	但是我们的确得到了这些文件
In this case, they've been hacked by their own government.	其实可以说是他们被自己的政府黑了
And I have nothing to hide.	说他们没有什么需要隐瞒的
Search engines know more about you than your family members know about you.	搜索引擎通常也比你的家人更了解你
And this is all the kind of information we are giving away, we are giving away to the United States.	这就是那些我们泄露给美国的信息
But that's not going to really change the situation.	但这些对改变现实无济于事
Humans have long held a fascination for the human brain.	人类长时间的着迷于人类的大脑。
On the side here, this is temporal cortex.	在侧面这里的是颞叶皮层。
But there's actually a lot of structure there.	但是大脑里确实有很多结构。
So the outer part of that brain is the neocortex.	在大脑外层部分是新大脑皮层。
And as you can see, they're very non-uniformly distributed.	正如你所见，它们的分布很不均一。
So let's take a deeper look.	让我们来更深入地观察一下。
There are also these smaller cells as you'll see.	还有一些你现在看到的小细胞。
And the nerves themselves are the ones who are receiving input.	而且神经本身是接收输入信息的。
They're storing it, they're processing it.	它们存储信息，它们加工信息。
We were seeking normal human brains.	我们寻找正常的人类大脑。
This a place where the dead are brought in.	那是个死人被带去的地方。
We are seeking normal human brains.	我们寻找的是正常的人类大脑。
There's a lot of criteria by which we're selecting these brains.	我们根据许多参考数据来选的大脑
And we're very careful about the brains that we do take.	我们对我们所选取的大脑非常小心。
We're going to then apply one of those stains to it, and we scan it.	我们将会对它进行着色并扫描它。
So again this is what they can see under the microscope.	这是他们在显微镜下看到的景象。
This area shown here is an area called the hippocampus.	这里显示的这个区域是大脑海马区。
Here's the MR. It provides the framework.	这是磁共振。它提供一个框架。
And each gene gives us a fingerprint.	每一个基因都给我们一个指纹。
There's some basic things that you would want to understand.	有一些基本的你想了解的东西
These are commonly prescribed antidepressants.	它们都是通常规定的抗抑郁类药物。
Now remember, we're assaying genes.	现在记住，我们正在化验基因。
So now we can look throughout the brain.	所以现在我们可以看透大脑。
We can see this unique fingerprint.	我们可以看到这独特的指纹。
It's as interesting a side effect as it could be.	这是一个非常非常有趣的副作用。
We're similar at the genetic level.	我们在遗传的级别上是一样的。
Now what do those differences look like?	这些不同看起来像什么呢？
Those kinds of studies require much larger populations.	这种研究需要更大量的人类大脑。
I think these resources are incredibly valuable.	我想这些资源是无价之宝。
We're certainly going to be looking at more.	我们很确定我们要去研究更多的。
This is the new frontier, if you will.	如果你愿意，这是一个新的前沿
That's a Haiti earthquake every eight days.	那是每八天的海地地震情况
And worst of all, we will never know.	最糟糕的是，我们永远也不会知道
Maybe it would have been much worse, or maybe it would have been better.	或许会坏很多或许会好很多
We have no idea. We don't know what the counterfactual is.	我们不知道不知道这样假设会如何
Sometimes the patient gets better, sometimes the patient dies.	有时候病人治好有时候病人死去
They're smaller questions, but they are not that small.	这些问题很小但又不是那么小
Immunization, that's the cheapest way to save a child's life.	免疫这是挽救孩子生命最便宜的方法
How do you know?	你怎么知道哪种方法更好？
But these three questions, I can answer them.	但是，我能回答这三个小问题
It's not the Middle Ages anymore, it's the 21st century.	现在不再是中世纪而是二十一世纪
Well, part of the problem, surely, is people do not fully understand.	部分问题当然是人们不太懂
It's going from intention to action.	人们开始从关注它到采取行动
Well, if that's the problem, then that's much easier.	如果这是问题所在的话倒是简单很多
The white dots are comparisons, nothing changed.	白点处是作为对比，什么也没变
Should you give them for free, or should you ask people to pay for them?	你是免费发放还是让人们付费？
And now we can see what happens.	现在我们可以看看发生了什么
If they have to pay for it, they use it.	他们付费得到蚊帐也会使用
So, that's for bed nets. So you will think, "That's great.	那些就是关于蚊帐的你会想"太好了
But what politicians need is a range of options.	但是政客们需要的是一组选择
So suppose your goal is to get kids into school.	假如你的目标是让孩子们上学
Well, in business, that's certainly not the way we would go about it.	在商业里这显然不是我们做事的方式
Well, if that had been the case, there would have been no Industrial Revolution.	如果现实是这样就不会发生工业革命
Tell people the benefits of education, that's very cheap to do.	告诉人们教育的益处这佯做很便宜
Here's an example of how this can be powerful.	这个例子告诉我们这样做多么强有力
Worms have a little bit of a problem grabbing the headlines.	蛔虫不会引起新闻头条的一丝主义
And sometimes what works somewhere doesn't work elsewhere.	有时候在此地有效的方式在彼处失效
So it's a slow process, but there is no other way.	这是很漫长的过程但是有其他放肆
It's a slow, deliberative process of discovery.	这是一个漫长，很慎重发现过程
Because this is where it all really began, isn't it?	不是吗？此处便是我们的起源地
I actually want answers from you.	我真的希望能听到你们的回答。
Africa was being used as a success story!	非洲已经被作为一个成功的实例
You should have seen my parents' reaction!	你们可以想象我父母的反应！
A satellite picture looking down at the earth.	这是一张从卫星上观测地球的图像
And let's start at the high level, on the macro-factors.	以一个高层次的宏观因素入手
But that's looking at the big picture.	不过这只是在全局上看到的
Each country has a unique value proposition.	因为每个国家有自己独立的主张。
You can make money, you can lose money in Africa.	你可以在非洲赚到钱，也可能赔钱。
So the first port of call: let's talk a little bit about South Africa.	第一个我们先来谈点关于南非的事情
But what were they there for? To acquire assets.	但他们去哪里干嘛呢？为了获得资产
Because it is actually a long-term play.	因为这是一个真正的长期投资
It's an investment opportunity. Think about that.	这是一个投资机会，考虑下
If you haven't, why not?	如果你还没有，这又为什么呢？
What's going on in Nigeria? A couple of things.	尼日利亚正在发生什么事情？很多。
I want to talk about it from the perspective of capital markets.	我想从资本市场的角度上谈论这个
Bellwether signs again.	接着从领先企业的信号来看看
It's an important strategic partner.	它是一个很重要的战略伙伴
And Emeka and I have had these discussions.	Emeka和我曾经讨论过这个事情
Because it's not about oil, it's not about commodities.	因为它无关于石油，无关于日用品
What else is going on there? Egypt.	下来还要谈的是哪个国家？埃及
It's being managed by a Singaporean-based management company.	正被一个新加坡公司所控制
Let's look at agriculture. Let's look at forestry.	再看一看农业，我们看下森林
Again, opportunity to tackle markets to get that higher price.	再一次，机会在于满足市场需求
But here is the sweetener in the deal.	但这只是整个生意里面的一丁点
Let's go back to Nigeria.	我们再回过来看看尼日利亚
The same for telecoms across the country.	对于整个国家的通讯也是如此
Let's look at the stock markets in Africa.	我们看看非洲的股票交易市场吧
So that's the change that's coming down the pipeline.	这就是变化，从头到尾的变化
Because there are amazing opportunities available.	因为这里有太多惊人的机会
It's not just another day. It's the one day that is given to you today.	不是的，这是被赐予的一天今天
It's given to you. It's a gift.	是上天赐给你的，是一个礼物
So this is the footage that I was showing everybody.	这就是我给大家放映的片段
They were -- had camera moves on them.	火箭——上面是有摄像机在移动的
I don't know why, but they thought they did.	我也不知道，但他们就觉得有必要
He was hoping it was going to work out okay.	他当然希望火箭不要出什么篓子
So he twisted his memory around.	所以这多少扭曲了他的记忆
It was, incidentally, the last time I ever saw daylight.	刚好那次也是我最后一次看到日光
How could somebody read using their fingertips?	怎么可能会有人能用指尖阅读呢?
How could somebody read using their fingertips?	怎么可能会有人能用指尖阅读呢?
KB: No, but you're OK, yes?	KB:好的,不过你确定,对吗?
Do you want to take off the other part of it?	你想把其它部分也取下来吗?
KT: Oh, my God!	Kathryn:噢,我的天呐!
KB: Now, anything coming at all?	KB:现在,前面有什么东西吗?
KT: How are you doing this?	Kathryn:你怎么做到的?
OK, now, do you believe in witchcraft at all?	好吧,现在,你相信邪恶巫术吗?
Yes or no, did you feel anything?	有没有,你感觉到什么吗?
Yeah, I walk around nightclubs all night like this.	对,我在夜总会里像这样逛一晚上,
And can you take a seat right over here for me, if you don't mind.	不介意的话,你能跟我坐在这里吗?
KB: No, just, is there any way to see through it?	KB:不是,通过它能看见东西吗?
KB: I'm over a cup, right now?	KB:现在,我在一个杯子的上方?
KB: You think it's under your right hand?	KB:你认为应该在右手的下面?
With the weird teeth. And you next to him.	牙齿有点怪的那位还有旁边那位
Actually, that whole row isn't right.	事实上那一整排都不大正常
So that was kind of a clue that things weren't right.	这算是个线索有点不太对劲
My mental illness -- well, I'm not even going to talk about my mental illness.	我的精神疾病我都根本不想谈论它
It comes completely conscious. It's got state-of-the-art lobes.	它是有完整意识的它有新生的脑叶
We've got the occipital lobe so we can actually see the world.	因为有枕叶所以我们能看到世界
I don't know if you can get that here.	我不知道你们能不能看清楚
This isn't for the one in four. This is for the four in four.	比例不是四分之一而是四分之四
So kitty cat, meow, happy happy happy, human beings, screwed.	小猫咪喵快乐快乐快乐人类完蛋了
Completely and utterly -- so, screwed.	完完全全彻彻底底地完蛋了
Is there anything unique about human beings?	人类有没有什么独特之处？
I want to know if there was a moral molecule.	我想知道是不是有道德分子。
This little syringe contains the moral molecule.	这个小的针筒里面有道德分子。
Turns out it wasn't so easy.	结果发现这个试验不是很简单。
If you're so virtuous, show me the money.	如果你太高尚了，那就给我钱吧！
So we recruit some people for an experiment.	我们召集一些人来做实验。
They all get $10 if they agree to show up.	他们只要来，就能得到10块钱。
Then we match them in pairs by computer.	然后我们用电脑对他们进行配对。
So think about this experiment for minute.	所以我们来回想一下整个实验。
You're going to sit on these hard chairs for an hour and a half.	你坐在硬板凳上足足1个半小时。
Make a decision and give me some blood.	做一个决定，给我一点血。
These include massage, dancing and praying.	包括按摩，跳舞以及祈祷。
Yes, my mom was happy about that last one.	没错，我妈妈对最后一项特别满意。
But why do they do this?	但是为什么他们会这样呢？
It's empathy that makes us help other people.	是同情让我们去帮助他人。
It's empathy that makes us moral.	是同情让我们变得有道德感。
Now this idea is not new.	这个想法并非最近才提出来的。
So I tend to do those things.	所以我会更愿意去做这类事。
Opens it up and there's a pearl necklace inside.	打开盒子，里面是一串珍珠项链。
And he said, "Hey, I was in the men's room.	他说，"嗨，我刚在男洗手间，
"Hey, a guy just found it."	"刚才一位先生找到了它。"
Tell that guy to wait half an hour.	请告诉那位先生，等我半个小时。
He said, "I can't do it.	他说，"我恐怕没办法做到了。
I'm in high school. I have no idea.	我当时还在高中。我一头雾水。
So I said, "I'll hold it for you."	我说，"我帮你拿着吧。"
Now we know what happens.	现在我们了解了事实真相。
One is through improper nurturing.	其中之一就是不健康的成长过程。
Also, high stress inhibits oxytocin.	另外，高压会抑制催产素的分泌。
So we, in experiments, have administered testosterone to men.	我们在试验中对男性施用雄性激素。
It's all inside of us.	一切都早已根植在我们体内。
Yeah, I've been worrying about that too.	是的，我也曾为此而忧虑过。
And I drove up in my rented Vauxhall.	我租了一辆沃克斯豪尔，开车前往。
Who is the center of the wedding solar system?	谁是这个婚礼太阳系的中心？
She had the biggest increase in oxytocin.	她的催产素增长水平是最高的。
Who loves the wedding almost as much as the bride?	谁和新娘一样，爱死了这个婚礼呢？
And they had the reporters and their producers participate.	他们让记者和编辑参与这个实验。
I mean, astounding; no one has this.	我想说，太令人惊讶了；无人能敌。
So he was using social media in private.	他当时正私下使用某种社交媒体。
There are 800 different languages in the highlands.	这片高地上有800种不同的语言。
These are the most primitive people in the world.	这里生活着世界上最原始的人类。
And they indeed also release oxytocin.	他们也不断地分泌着催产素。
So oxytocin connects us to other people.	催产素将我们与他人连结。
Oxytocin makes us feel what other people feel.	催产素让我们对他人感同身受。
What is going to be the future of learning?	学习的未来是什么样子的?
It's still with us today.	这台计算机如今仍在运行着。
It's called the bureaucratic administrative machine.	它被称为公务员行政体系。
It's quite fashionable to say that the education system's broken.	现在挺时兴说教育体系已然崩溃的。
It's just that we don't need it anymore. It's outdated.	只不过我们不再需要了。它过时了。
What are the kind of jobs that we have today?	我们今天的工作都是怎样的？
Well, the clerks are the computers.	嗯，书记员变成了计算机。
They're there in thousands in every office.	每个办公室都有成百上千台。
And you have people who guide those computers to do their clerical jobs.	而人们操作计算机完成文书工作。
Well, I bumped into this whole thing completely by accident.	一个偶然的机会让我想到这一切。
And right next to where I used to work, there was a slum.	就在我办公地点的旁边有个贫民窟。
And my daughter -- oh, surely she is extra-intelligent."	而我的女儿，当然也是聪慧过人。"
To his left is his student. She's six.	他左边的是他的学生，六岁。
And he's teaching her how to browse.	他正在教她怎么浏览页面。
I'd seen it happen over and over and over again.	我看到这样的事一再重演。
So then people said, well, how far will it go?	那么有人会说，还能到什么程度？
I made a hypothesis, a ridiculous hypothesis.	我做了一个假设，一个荒唐的假设。
Well, we know what they're like today.	唔，我们知道他们现在的样子。
Could it be that we don't need to go to school at all?	会变成我们完全不用去学校吗？
But that's terrible. We are homo sapiens.	但那样太糟糕了。我们是智人。
Knowing, that's what distinguishes us from the apes.	正是知识，把我们和猿猴区分出来。
I came back to England looking for British grandmothers.	我回到英国找当地的老太太们。
She does it with only one age-old gesture.	她只做了一个十分古老的手势。
You already heard about that. You know what that means.	你早就听说过了。你知道那是什么。
But that's not sexy enough.	但这种说法不够令人兴奋。
So here are a couple of images from SOLEs.	这里有一些自主教育环境的图像。
So we need to design a future for learning.	所以我们需要设计学习的未来。
Help me build this school.	请帮助我建造这样一所学校。
It will be called the School in the Cloud.	它将被称为"云端学院"。
There's only one granny who manages health and safety.	只有一个老奶奶确保健康和安全。
The rest of it's from the cloud.	其他一切都来自于计算机和网络。
But I want you for another purpose.	但我希望你们做另一件事。
And there was this little girl who was following me around.	有一个小姑娘与我形影不离，
I don't know, what should I do?"	但我不清楚我该怎么做。"
It's kind of a funny, goofy sound to do.	他们做出这种滑稽的声音。
If I pass out on the next song ...	如果我在弹下首曲子时晕过去……
His land was no longer registered in his name.	他名下的土地已经不再属于他。
Each work that I make is comprised of three segments.	我的每个作品都由三个部分组成。
And then on the right is what I refer to as a footnote panel.	右边的展板用来做脚注说明
A bloodline is determined and ordered.	血缘关系是明确而有序的。
Polygamy is widely practiced in Kenya.	一夫多妻在肯尼亚很常见，
And I was therefore able to photograph the fully assembled remains.	我因此拍摄到了他完整的遗骸。
The reasons for these absences include people who declined participation.	缺席的原因包括有些人拒绝参与
And they are in an active blood feud.	这两个家族间有着血海深仇。
I'm interested in these ideas of repetition.	我对这种不断重复的故事很感兴趣。
There are many more chapters in this project.	在这个展览中还有很多章节。
Something is said in the gaps between all the information that's collected.	就存在于这些文字的字里行间。
So technically, I can actually read this.	技术上来说，的确，我可以读懂它
I will follow the instructions, the tempo markings, the dynamics.	我会根据乐谱上的拍子和节奏
I will do exactly as I'm told.	演奏它，一字不拉地按照我所读到的
And I think what Herbie said -- please listen, listen.	我在想Herbie的话请听一听
We have to listen to ourselves, first of all.	首先，我们必须聆听我们自己
can be felt with just the tiniest part of your finger, there.	都可以被你手指上最微小的部分感知
Same amount of weight, but different sound colors.	同样的重量，但是不同的声音色彩
I say "music," but actually I mean "sound."	我所说的音乐，其实就是指声音
Exactly. Because I'm not even touching it.	没错，因为我还没有碰到它呢
But yet, we get the sensation of something happening.	但是，我们感觉到有什么事情在发生
In another year's time, three extra steps.	再过一年，他们可以多走三步
Rain. Not bad. Not bad.	下雨的声音呢？还不错，还不错
Listen, listen, listen. Now -- what can we do with thunder?	听一听现在，我们怎样处理雷声呢？
But I don't want to take responsibility of your emotional baggage.	但我不想为大家的情绪包袱负责
That's up to you, when you walk through a hall.	这由你决定，当你走进一座演奏大厅
Be aware that you're not going to experience the same thing as the performer is.	确定你不会受到演奏者情绪的影响
They're experiencing that rawness there.	他们感受的就是那些最原始的声音
But thank you very much for having me!	非常感谢大家的聆听与关注
I got to tell you, it's driving me nuts, actually.	说真的，这快要把我逼疯了。
There's no archive, there are no barriers, there's no registration.	没有存档。没有限制。没有登记。
There are thousands of memes that come out of the site.	这个网站创造了许多"谜米"。
So does a site like this have rules?	像这样的网站有什么规则吗？
I assure you, it is very true.	不过我敢保证，这绝对是真的。
It is where a third of all the traffic is going.	网站三分之一的访客流量都在那里。
I ended up at this really fancy party.	我最后还参加了一个很有款的派对。
Dusty is the name that we've given to this cat.	灰灰是我们给一只猫取的名字。
And sites like it are kind of going the way of the dinosaur right now.	而这种类型的网站已经濒临绝种了。
We're moving towards persistent identity.	我们正迈向验证固定的身份。
There are plenty of downsides.	而且坏处也不只是一两件而已。
99 percent of it is just, would have been, you know, bleeped out.	99%的内容应该都会被消声吧。
But there were some good things that came out of that too.	不过也有些不错的内容哦。
The site has adult content on it.	这个网站上有限制级内容。
You want to measure it by diversity?	你要以生物多样性来测量吗？
Now, my work began at the beginning.	现在，我的工作是从头开始。
If we could roll that first video clip.	我们回放一下第一段录像。
Some of them are more experienced.	其中一些学生则相对经验丰富些。
The ground surface at 150 -- typical.	而地表通常可以达到66摄氏度。
It really is a little bit out of place temporally.	看起来暂时跟周围环境有点不搭。
This is something we found in Morocco, an immense animal.	这是我们在摩洛哥发现的庞然大物。
It's really a wholly separate radiation.	很明显，它是一个新的种类。
So what we're trying to piece together here is a story.	所以我们正在尽力还原当初的情况，
We had to try and reconstruct this.	我们竭尽全力想把它复原，
Could I have the second little video clip?	马上来放一下第二个短片。
Anyway, you find other things, too.	无论如何，你还会找到其它的东西。
Two hundred skeletons, tools, jewelry.	骨架，工具，珠宝，共有200件。
I want to give you three dimensions.	我要向你们展示三维的生命树。
So the tree of life is normally divergence over time.	生命树随着时间的流逝形成分叉。
Several teachers nearly killed me.	一些老师几乎要把我杀了。
I read a dictionary. I got into college.	我读了一本字典。我进了学院。
I became an artist. O.K., and started drawing.	我成为了画家，开始画画。
Dinosaurs was one of them.	其中一个问题和恐龙有关。
These are two kids from Project Exploration.	这是两个来自"探索工程"的孩子。
Now this is when something really bizarre happens.	这时非常奇异的事情发生了。
But then she falls back again.	但是接下来她又一次落后了。
The Tarahumara had a different strategy.	塔拉乌马拉人有个不同的策略。
They are free from all of these modern ailments.	他们完全没有这些现代疾病。
For some reason you guys are just really slow.	由于某些原因，你们实在是跑得慢。
Maybe we evolved as a hunting pack animal.	也许我们进化成了一群狩猎动物。
We're really good at being sweaty and smelly.	我们确实擅长于出汗和变臭。
That's all we could do.	这就是我们可能会做的一切；
We could run really far on a hot day.	我们能在热天里跑非常长的距离。
The key to being part of a hunting pack is the word "pack."	狩猎团体的关键是"团体"这个词。
You need a pack to pull together.	你需要一个团体齐心协力。
The herd explodes and it gathers back again.	羚羊群散开，并重新汇聚它们。
Those expert trackers have got to be part of the pack.	团体应该有些专业的追踪者。
They need to be part of the pack.	他们都需要成为团体的一部分。
I didn't do yoga. I'm not ready."	我不做瑜伽。我还没准备好。"
Get rid of all the stinking running shoes.	摆脱所有那些讨厌的跑步鞋。
So you burn off the Haagen-Dazs from the night before?	因此你从前天晚上起扔掉哈根达斯？
And I remember thinking about all the reasons why that was the case.	我记得我考虑了所有的原因。
But one really struck me.	但是有一个原因令我作罢。
It didn't speak language, but it didn't matter.	他不会说任何语言，但是无所谓。
Leo, Cookie Monster is very bad.	里昂，饼干怪兽非常的坏。
But with the robot, you can.	但是和机器人互动时你却可以。
This is just like video conferencing today.	就像如今的视频会议一样。
And this is what we see when they use just the screen.	这是他们只是用屏幕的结果。
Now let's try to put this into a little bit of context.	现在把这个放入大一点的社会环境。
It had a couple of simple non-verbal skills it could do.	它由一些简单的非语言技巧。
Is it really just the quality of advice and information that matters?	还是知识建议和信息的质量有影响？
They would dress the robots.	人们愿意给机器人穿衣服。
They didn't do this with a computer.	他们从未对电脑作过这些。
But we can push this idea further.	但我们可以将这个想法发展得更远。
And now it's got number power.	现在他得到了数字的力量。
I actually want them to create those experiences.	我实际上想让他们创造这些经验。
Robots touch something deeply human within us.	机器人触动我们深处的人性。
School's almost over. Summer is near.	"快放假了，夏天要来了"
And I'm sportin' torn Jordans.	"我还穿着破破烂烂的乔丹运动"
And I can't have my posse laughin' at me.	"我不能让我的哥们儿们嘲笑我"
Not one spot of dirt. The Airs were brand new.	"一尘不染""气垫鞋还是全新的"
He was coughing, crying, blood spilled on the street.	"咳嗽、哭喊、血肉四溅"
And I snatched them Air Jordans off of his feet.	"我把乔丹气垫鞋从他脚上扒下来"
See, it wasn't enough for me to write a book.	对于我而言，写作并不够。
I mean, I thought poetry was just self-expression.	我原本以为诗歌只是一种自我表达。
I didn't know you actually have to have creative control.	我却不知道还需要富有创意。
But that wasn't the biggest lesson I ever learned.	但这还不是我学到的最重要的一课。
Dude, you go to Riker's Island Academy.	"哥们儿，你去里克岛学院学习，"
And this gets shown in art galleries like this, as a sequence.	它们在一个画廊中按顺序展出。
So I'm trying to penetrate that.	所以我尝试者把它表现出来。
I was being asked and paid to do front covers.	有人付钱让我做封面摄影。
I then started to work for magazines and newspapers.	然后我开始为报刊杂志工作。
I explored with actually dressing up as the celebrities myself.	我实际上把自己打扮成了名人。
So, all this work is getting shown in art galleries.	这一系列照片都在画廊中展览。
I'm not really interested in the celebrity themselves.	我并不是对名人本人感兴趣。
I'm interested in the perception of the celebrity.	我感兴趣的是人们对于名人的看法。
It's highly commercial.	这是一个高度商业的广告。
This image is quite interesting, actually, because I think we made it three years ago.	这幅图其实很有趣这是三年前拍摄的
And the press were interviewing, and I was signing my book. .	媒体们采访着，我给我的书签名
And really commenting, you know, based on the perception we have of the celebrities.	这些评论根据我们对名人的看法
This is important because we live in an urban age.	这对生活在城市时代的我们非常重要
In this case, it's expected that you shelter in place.	这样，我们有望能安居在适宜的地方
It was dangerous, hard to cross the street.	但是改进之后过马路还是很危险
So it was all about the data.	所以这些都取决于最终的数据
But the results were overwhelming.	最终的结果是相当有说服力的
It was like a Star Trek episode, you know?	就像星际迷航中的片段，对吧？
"What did you think about the lawn chairs?"	"你觉得这些躺椅怎么样？"
"Do you like the color of the lawn chairs?"	"你喜欢它们的颜色吗？"
It is in the real-world performance of the street.	而是在现实生活街道的效果中
You can have fun with paint.	你真的可以享受于这些装饰
You just click it, and they're there.	只需要点击一下鼠标就可以了
We also brought new designs to the street.	我们也引入了一些新的设计
And you can see here that this strategy has worked.	你可以看到这种方法的确是奏效的
The blue line is the number of cyclists, soaring.	这条蓝线是迅速增长的骑行者数目
You pay at a kiosk before you get on the bus.	上车前只需要在自助服务厅买票
You just need to reimagine your streets.	你只需要重新想象你的街道
32 million heart attacks and strokes occur.	3200万人死于突发心脏病和中风
Who is at risk? People like you.	哪些人属于危险人群？你们都是
The best way to spiral into a cycle of poverty is to kill the parents.	父母去世是导致贫穷的最快方式
It's very well known. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on those.	众所周知，所以我就不多说了
Right here in Tanzania, 30 percent of individuals have hypertension.	在坦桑尼亚，30%的人有高血压
We decided that we needed to put our money where our mouth is.	我们决定要把钱花在刀刃上
We take care of everyone.	我们帮助所有需要帮助的人
And I will tell you how we're able to do it.	让我告诉你们这一切是如何办到的
We manufacture them in-house, ourselves. That keeps the costs down.	进行内部生产，这样就降低了成本
This is the way our centers are set up.	我们建立了自己的医疗中心
This model can be adapted to every disease process.	这个模式适用于每个疾病治疗流程
He doesn't have to experience the anxiety of not knowing because of limited expertise.	不会因为缺乏专家意见而焦躁不安
We also use [an] electronic medical record system.	我们还有一套电子病历系统
It cannot just be technology, we recognize that.	但我们意识到仅仅依靠科技是不够的
They need to be alive, they need to feed.	他们需要活命，需要养家糊口
We have had walks every year -- every March, April.	每年的三月和四月是"行走月"
We form people into groups and make them go into challenges.	我们将病人分组，让他们互相竞赛
If you don't get this pacemaker, you will be dead.	如果没有心脏起搏器，病人将会死亡
So we are pleased with that.	能帮助病人我们觉得很欣慰
And we've hopefully saved a lot of lives.	而且我们有能力挽救很多生命
So, we emphasize training. Training is critical.	我们强调培训，培训是十分重要的
That way we're not going to deal with obsolescence and all those kinds of issues.	我们就不用处理机器淘汰之类的问题
Who are we to decide that poor people cannot get the best care?	谁说穷人就不能享受最好的治疗
When have you been appointed to play God?	谁规定你就得扮演上帝，帮助他人
OK. Now, if you want to understand autism, animals.	假如你希望了解自闭症或者是动物
You have to get away from verbal language.	你需要摆脱单纯的用言语思考的习惯
People are getting away from doing hands-on stuff.	很多人也慢慢的失去了动手的能力
My drawings got to star in the movie too.	我的绘画也在电影里展现出来了
I see only specific pictures.	而我只是注意到某一类的图像
OK, how about famous ones?	好，那些更为著名的建筑呢？
Just really quickly, like Google for pictures.	非常快，像是谷歌图片搜索
Now, another kind of mind is the pattern thinker.	另外一种心智就是模式思考
And there in the background is the pattern for folding it.	在后面你可以看到折叠的纹路
Some of these oftentimes have problems with reading.	而这些人往往会有阅读上的障碍
You'll see these different kinds of minds.	你可以看到这些不同的心智模式
You know, it's going to be variable.	不同的人会有不同程度的反应
Man on a horse, a man on foot -- they're two different things.	人骑在马上跟站在地上，这是两回事
See, I want you to think about just how specific this is.	请看看这里是多么精细的细节吧
I find a lot of people have difficulty doing that.	但我发现很多人都没有掌握这一点
Now, let's say I figure out it's an equipment problem.	比方说，这是个设备的问题
People have a hard time figuring that out.	但人们往往就很难找到答案
Yeah, I'm a million-mile flyer.	没错，我自己就经常要坐飞机
Now, here is a horse that was deathly afraid of black cowboy hats.	这匹马是非常害怕黑色的牛仔帽的
And they're not going down the right path.	而且他们现在所走的路正好是错误的
We've got to show these kids interesting stuff.	我们必须给这些孩子看有趣的东西
You know, all I wanted to do was draw pictures of horses when I was little.	当我很小的时候，我就只是想画马
My mother said, "Well let's do a picture of something else."	母亲说，"我们画点别的东西吧"
What can visual thinkers do when they grow up?	这些视觉思考者长大后可以做什么呢
You're getting that kid turned on.	他们可以为孩子打开崭新的世界
Mentors are just essential.	所以说，导师是至关重要的
And it can only use so much memory."	并且我们的手机内存只有这么多。"
Well, that's the end of my talk.	好，我的演讲就到此结束了
You know, the thing is, autism comes in different degrees.	因为自闭症也是分不同程度的
That was like, we considered that super cool.	我们那时候认为这是非常酷的
And this is before the Internet got really big.	那还是互联网尚未急剧增长的时候
So magic is a very introverted field.	魔术是个很不爱交际的领域
The first problem is there's inadequate disaster response.	第一个问题，危机处理不妥当
These are actually solutions. And what do I mean by that?	而是解答。我指的是什么呢？
And we can use veterans to improve disaster response.	我们可以让退役军人改善赈灾行动
We served together in Iraq and Afghanistan.	我们一起在伊拉克和阿富汗服役
Clay was with us in Port-au-Prince. He was also with us in Chile.	在太子港和智利，他也和我们同在
And perhaps most tragically, he lost his self-worth.	最悲惨的是，他失去了自我认同。
Every day he leaves the wire with a mission.	每一天他离开军营去参加任务
It's to pacify the village that he works in.	维持他前往的那个村庄的和平
They've eaten together. They've bled together.	他们一起吃饭。他们一起打拼。
This was a zero day. That's good.	这天的午餐得到零分。幸好
And the answer is, all of human history prior to now.	答案就是，人类自古以来就是如此
Now, this isn't just a contemporaneous question.	如今，这不是当代才有的问题
Well, obviously, it would lead to world peace.	很显然，这一定会让世界和平
What they got exactly wrong was what happens next.	但他们想错的是接下来发生的事
That's what happens when the media's space expands.	这就是媒体扩张时代带来的结果
But the other thing they needed was speed.	另一件他们所需的事情，就是速度
The scientific revolution wasn't created by the printing press.	科学革命不是因为印刷机而起的
Better arguing? That's the question.	更好地争辩？这也是一个问题
It provides a canonical copy of the software on a server somewhere.	它能提供在服务器上软件运行的备份
This is a tremendously complicated process.	这是极其庞大而复杂的工序
It has two big differences with traditional version control systems.	它与传统的版本控制系统有两大不同
Programmers take this capability for granted.	程式设计师真是物尽其用了
Part of the problem, of course, is just a lack of information.	当然，部分的原因只是出在缺乏资讯
The bigger problem, of course, is power.	当然，更大的问题出在权力
It was the expectation of the citizens that she would not be censored.	大众期望著她不用接受审查
Well, I don't recommend that you try to do that now.	不过，我可不想让各位模仿。
So, that gives you a kind of flavor of the kind of people we have there.	所以您就了解我们那里都是哪类人。
We try to avoid blowing ourselves up.	我们得小心，别把自己炸上天。
As you can see, one of our parties, you know, a few years ago.	你看，这是几年前的一场聚会。
Maybe they're right - I doubt it.	没准他们正确，不过我怀疑它。
Tell them where to put it, and then just do what you want to do.	告诉他们放心，然后做你想做的。
How did the galaxies form? How did the planets form?	星系如何形成的？行星如何形成的？
Why is there a planet on which there is life which have evolved?	为什么有个星球就有进化了的生命？
So we literally are all made out of stardust.	本质上我们都是由星尘构成的。
We started from those stars; we are made of stardust.	我们起源于星星，我们由星尘构成。
Six to nine months at the right time of the year.	在合适的年份需要六到九个月。
So it's about the size, you know, of the United States.	就大小来说，有美国那么大。
So, it basically dwarfs, you know, Mount Everest here on Earth.	地球上的珠穆朗玛峰相形见绌。
As I told you, geologists love craters.	如我所言，地质学家爱陨石坑。
Well, here we are four years later, and they're still working.	四年后，它们还运行正常。
But still they are producing a lot of scientific data.	不过它们还继续提供大量科学数据。
That's what we call the seven minutes of terror.	这就是被我们称为恐怖的7分钟。
It's this immensely exciting and challenging problem.	这是一个令人兴奋的巨大的挑战。
So now let me talk about the next things that we are doing.	接下来讲一讲我们的下一步计划。
So I thought I would go a little bit and tell you, kind of, the steps we go through.	我多说一下，我们做过的步骤。
In general we don't try to please the customer here.	总的来讲我们不必取悦顾客。
Now, "The Lord of the Rings" has two things played through it.	"魔戒"有两个东西展示。
First, I'm going to fly you over the rings.	首先，让我们飞跃土星环。
By the way, all of this is real stuff.	提一下，所有这些都是真的。
This is not animation or anything like this.	这不是动画，或者其他东西。
Now, you think that those rings are very large objects.	现在，您认为这些环非常大。
And that's one of the satellites which was actually formed on that one.	这是其中一颗卫星就是由此形成的。
Well, there were two satellites which were particularly interesting.	其中有两颗卫星非常有趣。
So as we flew by away from it, we looked back. And guess what?	当我们飞过去回望的时候。猜猜看
And that atmosphere is very -- as dense as our own atmosphere.	大气密度和我们的大气差不多。
And this is a picture of an area as we were coming down.	这幅照片就是我们下降的区域。
Just looked like the coast of California for me.	对我来说就像加利福尼亚的海岸。
So in closing, I said I want to close by a couple of pictures.	在结尾，我想在以几幅照片做结尾。
So Ozzie, Harriet and me.	没错，奥兹，哈里特和我。
Imagine what the iPhone 8 will be able to do.	想像iPhone8将能做什么。
We have the ability to do more powerful things with them.	因此我们能够做更强大的事情。
How would you like to avoid the pointy end of the stick?	你怎么能避免结肠镜的尖端呢？
Well now there's essentially a virtual colonoscopy.	现在有一种虚拟结肠镜检查。
And this is an example of this paradigm shift.	这是一个根本变化的例子。
We're moving, obviously, to the era of the tricorder.	明显我们正走向分析仪时代。
Now we're also in the era, today, of quantified self.	现在我们处在量化自我的时代。
I can measure my steps, my caloric outtake.	我可以计算出我的步数和热量消耗。
I can get insight into that on a daily basis.	我能够每天都知道了解这数据。
I can share that with my friends, with my physician.	我可以和朋友或医生分享这些数据。
too much information, I think, than you might need.	我认为有比你需要的多得多的信息。
Now we've heard a lot today about new technology and connection.	现在我们已经听了太多技术和连接，
This can be integrated with decisions support.	这可以和决策支持合并在一起。
Now how about controlling other elements?	现如今控制其他元素会怎么样呢？
And now this is the early era of wearable robotics.	现在是可穿用机器人时代的早期。
Now how about other exponentials?	其他的指数技术怎么样呢？
These are shrinking even further.	这些装置正在被变得更小。
These are going to be game changing.	这些技术将会是革命性的。
Microfluidics can replace an entire lab of technicians.	微流体能替代整个实验室的技术员。
Now how about exponentially cheaper?	如果指数更加便宜会怎样？
And many, many different companies are working on leveraging these approaches.	很多不同的公司正在利用这些方法。
When was the last time your physician asked you where you've lived?	上次医生问你住在哪里是什么时间？
So I'll finish up with exponentially better.	我将以指数地更好前景来做结束。
We'd like to get therapies better and more effective.	我们会得到更好更有效的治疗。
Now today we treat high blood pressure mostly with pills.	如今我们通常通过吃药治疗高血压。
This is a new device that is essentially doing that.	这是做这种治疗的一种新装置。
It should be on the market within a year or two.	它应该能在一两年内投放市场。
So we're attacking the wrong target.	所以我们正在去除错误的目标体。
We also have adult stem cells throughout our body.	我们有遍布我们身体的成体干细胞。
Still a Phase I trial, but evolving.	仍在试验阶段，但是不断进展。
That's where things are going to head -- still very early days.	这是未来的展望；仍然在初始阶段。
And as a cancer doctor, I'm looking forward to being out of a job.	作为一名癌症医生，我期待失业。
This is another longish one, about the old and the young.	这是另一首长诗关于年轻人与年长者
My seeing her, it wasn't her, at the mailbox.	我看见她的信，实际上并不是她的
Sometimes there are frightening goings-on in the stairwell.	有时有可怕的往来，就在楼梯间。
Taking my arm, leaning lightly against me.	抓住我的胳膊，在她身旁轻轻扶住
Another, different kind of poem of youth and age.	另一首，是关于青春与岁月的诗作
She boldly, unblinkingly, even pugnaciously, wrathfully even, when her bottle was empty.	她激烈的，癫疯的整个人防空
I was frightened of her. I felt like a child.	我被吓坏了。我觉得像一个孩子。
Her vigil somewhere I know continues.	她的晚会，我知道的地方继续。
Her occupancy, her absolute, faithful attendance.	她住，她的绝对忠诚出席会议。
I kept finding myself at her page.	我不停地发现自己在她的页面。
Sex and death, how close they can seem.	性别和死亡，如何接近他们看来。
My passion for her goes beyond reasonable bounds.	我对她的热情超出了合理的范围。
But I think we're looking for something more.	我觉得我们要的不止这些。
It changed our view of the physical world.	它改变了我们对物质世界的认知。
And at last, we appear to be doing something about it.	后来，我们开始对此采取行动。
This destructive power takes many different forms.	这些毁灭性破坏力表现在不同方面。
She, better than most, knew the power of an image.	她比多数人更清楚图片的力量。
No, but they had a major impact.	不，但他们产生了深远影响。
My company has 70 million images.	我的公司拥有七千万照片，
I specialize in dragging heavy things around cold places.	我特别擅长在寒冷的地方拖行重物。
More than 2,000 people have climbed Everest.	有2000多人登上过珠穆朗玛峰。
It all started back in 2001.	这都要追溯的2001年的时候。
We were attacked by a polar bear on day two.	我们在第二天就被一只北极熊袭击。
I had frostbite in my left big toe.	我的左脚大拇指还长了冻疮。
There's a wire dangling down either side.	每边都有一根金属线拉下来。
That was our HF radio antenna.	那是我们高频收音机的天线。
Ultimately, we ran out of time.	最关键的是，我们时间不够用。
And I felt that I had failed, wholeheartedly.	当时我感觉我彻头彻尾地失败了。
I'm lying in the tent, getting ready to go.	我正在帐篷里，准备出发。
Later in the expedition, the problem was no longer the ice.	在探险的后期，冰不再是问题。
It was a lack of ice -- open water.	因为没有什么冰了--开阔的水面。
This was my little bit of bio-mimicry.	这里有一些关于仿生学的知识。
If they come to water, they'll climb in, swim across it.	如果它们遇见水面，它们会游过去。
I'd navigate using the direction of the wind.	我全靠风向确定前进的方向。
Ninety degrees north -- that is slap bang in the North Pole.	北纬90度--突然就到了是北极。
And I got three voicemails.	结果我接到了三个电话留言提示。
The entire planet is rotating beneath my feet.	整个星球都在旋转于我的脚下。
I skied on for a week past the Pole.	我越过了北极点滑行一周。
This was the last day I had on the ice.	这是我在冰上的最后一天。
There are huge areas of open water just south of your position.	在你的南边有大片的开阔水面。
Ben, could you please look for an airstrip?"	本，你能不能找一块飞机着陆地？"
I'm supposed to be the roughty toughty explorer type.	我应该保持那种坚韧的探险者形象。
The co-pilot was a lady called Monica.	副飞行员是一个叫莫妮卡的女生。
She sat there in a sort of hand-knitted jumper.	她穿着手工的套衫坐在那儿。
He put his hand on the throttle.	他把手放在飞机推进器上。
And only from the air did I see the big picture.	从空中我才最终看到整个的境况。
There's a cafe and there's a tourist shop.	有一个餐厅和一个旅行者商店。
That's as close as I can come to summing that up.	这是我能够下的最好的总结了。
Two of us are doing it.	我们会有两个人一起做这件事。
So, I was in the hospital for a long time.	我之前很长一段时间都在住院
And what's the brilliant idea he had?	而他的天才之处在哪儿呢?
I said, "Can I see some evidence for this?"	我就问到"能给我看些样本吗?"
"Oh, don't worry about it," he said.	"哦不用担心这点"他回答道
"We have lasers; we can whiten it out."	"沃恩能用激光把它变成白色"
And then came one of the biggest guilt trips of my life.	接着这成为了我生命中最大的罪恶感
Do you enjoy looking non-symmetric?	你喜欢这样不对称的样子?
But I decided not to have this treatment.	但是我决定还是不接受这个治疗
Now you probably think that this guy's a schmuck.	现在你可能觉得这个人是个白痴
Who would ever include a drunken guy in a sample?"	谁同意这种醉鬼参加实验的?"
Would we have thrown him out then?"	那如果我们把他扔出去呢?"
Because we don't see how conflicts of interest work on us.	因为我们无法看清自身的利益冲突
I was actually interfering with the process with lots of good intentions.	我实际上被很多正面的意识所左右
I do want to leave you with one positive thought.	我真的想留给大家一个正面的想法
And that, I think, is the hope. Thank you very much.	而且我想这就是希望之所在谢谢大家
And I think it's no accident that we think this way.	我想意外事故并非我们所想的那样。
But they'd heard some frightening rumors.	但是他们听到了让人恐怖的谣言。
Like all stories, fears have characters.	如同所有的故事，恐惧中有角色。
In our fears, the characters are us.	在恐惧中，角色就是我们自己。
What would happen to our minds?	我们的思想会有什么变化？
Once in a while, our fears can predict the future.	曾几何时，我们的恐惧预测将来。
They dreamed up a variety of horrifying scenarios.	他们梦想到一系列恐怖的场景。
So what was the difference?	那么这其中的区别是什么呢？
We talk about what we don't know.	我们谈论的是我们不知道的东西。
This is the stuff that's exhilarating and interesting.	这是令人振奋和有趣的东西。
It is, if you will, the ignorance.	如果你愿意，你可以叫它无知。
That's what was missing.	这正是我们没注意到的方面。
I mean a different kind of ignorance.	我这里指得的是另一种无知。
So it is true that science piles up at an alarming rate.	科学发现正以惊人的速度积累着，
How can you ever know all of this?	你怎么可能掌握这一切呢？
But knowing a lot of stuff doesn't make you a scientist.	但知识多并不会让你成为科学家。
We don't have any such guarantee.	但我们对科学研究却没法打保票。
I don't think that's the way it works either.	我同样不觉得这个模式是正确的。
Scientists argue about this all the time.	科学家总是为这个话题辩论。
So how do we think about these questions?	那么我们怎么考虑这些问题呢？
Doesn't know much but they have a lot of interest.	他知道的不多，但他有很多兴趣。
They're interested in almost everything.	他们几乎对所有的东西感兴趣。
So the important thing here is that this can all be changed.	但重要的是这些是可以改变的。
Let me give you a quick idea of a couple of these sorts of questions.	让我给你讲讲两个诸如此类的问题。
Because it's not always quite so straightforward.	因为这些问题并不总是那么直接。
So that maybe is not that interesting.	所以说这个问题没什么意思。
What ought we to be studying?	我们应该学着研究什么呢？
And you don't even think about it, do you?	你甚至从来都没想过这些，对吧？
And I also think it's important to realize that the conversation's been going on for a while, by the way.	我认为谈论其实已经进行很久了。
You know. You can imagine what it is.	你知道吧？你可以想象出来的。
This can't possibly continue to go on.	我们不能这样继续下去了。
So I'd say, let's get out the matches.	所以我建议，让我们拿出火柴来。
Ten years ago exactly, I was in Afghanistan.	整整十年以前，我在阿富汗。
Would you like to see civil war, sectarian killing?	你们希望看到内战和宗派屠杀吗？
That was one of the worst nightmares that we have seen.	这是我们最可怕的噩梦之一
Nothing happened. No violence. Nothing.	什么也没发生没有暴力风平浪静
Parents actually went to the streets and they supported them.	他们的父母去到大街上支持他们
We are going to be the voice for these voiceless people.	我们要成为这些民众的喉舌
And this is the moment that is happening right now in the Arab world.	现在就是阿拉伯世界发生变革的时刻
They started telling the West, "Be aware of Al-Qaeda.	他们开始警告西方"小心基地组织
Fortunately, people right now cannot be deceived.	真不巧人们现在可没那么好骗了
Al Jazeera is not a tool of revolution.	卡塔尔半岛电视台不是变革的工具
The future has arrived, and the future is now.	未来就在眼前未来就是现在
But this is a story -- it is a great story; it is beautiful.	而这个事件－－非常伟大；异常美丽
You are witnessing change in history.	你是在亲眼见证历史的变迁
You are witnessing the birth of a new era.	你是在见证一个新时代的诞生
Fifty percent of it is coming from America.	百分之五十的点击率来自美国
I believe they've heard your talk.	我相信他们都听到了您的讲话
And I am now going to argue that this is only half true.	我现在想说明这句话只说对了一半。
"Oh yeah, by sharing needles."	"哦，当然知道。共用一个针头。"
"So are you carrying a needle?"	"那你们会带着针头吗？"
"Are you carrying clean needles?"	"你们带着干净的针头吗？"
There's just kind of an ick factor there.	这是因为，你知道，ick的原因。
Here, maybe you'll have better luck.	接着，也许你的运气好一点。
And, again, it's because of an alignment of the incentives.	正是因为形成了这些鼓励措施
This, for example, this gentleman is called Joseph.	就像这位先生，他叫Joseph。
Let's just stop treating people."	我们都别给患者治病了吧？
No, and I call it the "compassion conundrum."	不，我把这种情况称作同情难题。
I want to give what's very nearly the last word to Ines.	我想对Ines说几句离别的话。
It varies a bit province to province.	每个省份的情况稍微有点不同。
I'd go up and learn these old songs from her.	我去那从她那里学了这些老歌
She couldn't sing much, couldn't play anymore.	她不能唱太多，也不能再演奏了。
Hey, hey, black-eyed Susie, hey.	嘿，嘿，黑眼睛的苏茜！嘿
Hey, hey black-eyed Susie, hey.	嘿，嘿，黑眼睛的苏茜！嘿
Hey, hey, black-eyed Susie, hey.	嘿，嘿，黑眼睛的苏茜，嘿！
This was in 1968, I guess it was.	那是1968年的事了，我想应该是
You can imagine how excited they were.	你可以想象出来他们激动的样子。
And you can look at more pictures.	你们可以看到一些更多的图片
Well, it was 1954, I guess it was.	嗯，那是1954年，我想大概是。
Outside of Gatesville we were coming back from the grocery store.	我们从小便利店回到盖茨维尔的郊外
We were surrounded by thousands of acres of cotton fields.	周围是数千英亩的棉花田。
And, buddy, that made us mad.	哦，伙计们，这气坏了我们。
We were standing on the edge of thousands of acres of cotton.	我们站在几千英亩的棉花田边。
There were about a hundred black folks out there picking.	大概有一百个黑人农民在采棉花。
And Mom was just sitting by the car like this.	而妈妈就是坐在车子旁边，像这样
Well, the foreman could see he was in over his head, I guess.	我猜，工头可以看到他是在他的头上
Good news: Chariot's coming.	"好消息，马车要来了。"
I didn't know it was going to make you fall in love with music though."	我不知道这会让你从此爱上音乐。
It's usually played flat on your lap.	通常是把它平放在腿上弹奏。
Break it off, put it on your finger, and slide into the notes.	把酒瓶打破，放在手上，开始弹奏。
This instrument pretty much saved my life.	这个乐器可以说救了我一命。
I had to make lists of reasons to stay alive.	我必须列出来活下去的理由。
Nothing. Nothing.	对什么都不关心了。什么都不关心。
Lord, I hate to hear that news.	上帝啊，我讨厌听到那样的消息。
Oh yeah, that's easier said than done.	是呀，说起来容易做起来难。
We said, well, what are you going to do with it?	我们就说，好哇，你们要火药干吗？
Sure. We'll make you a big batch.	当然，我们会给你们做一大批。
It became Chris Berquist's job to do the melting down.	克里斯贝基斯特负责融化盘子。
Michael and I were standing way at the side of the kitchen.	我和迈克尔远远站在厨房旁边。
And this is, by the way, something that a democratic society also has to do.	这也是一个民主社会一定会做的事情
And here are some of the ethical principles.	这儿列举了一些他们的理念
And the idea is that everything is defined.	其思想是:相对于这最后一层天体
In a Newtonian universe, there's no center -- thank you.	牛顿式的宇宙没有中心----谢谢
So we call it a relational universe.	因此,我们称之为"联系的宇宙"
So this is general relativity, this is quantum theory.	这是一般相对论,量子理论
I run a design studio in New York.	我在纽约开一家设计工作室
You see here a glass eye in a die cut of a book.	看到了吧，书中藏着一颗玻璃眼睛
And then tacked on at the end of it are about 15 years for retirement.	放到最后的是约十五年的退休生活
But at the same time, there will be periods when I think is all that really hard work really worth my while?	但有时我又会想花这多精力值得吗？
I had spent my first sabbatical in New York City.	我的第一个长修假是在纽约市度过的
So we created this series of 99 portraits on tee shirts.	我们就此做了99狗像系列的T恤衫
I also started meditating for the first time in my life in Bali.	在巴厘岛，我开始平生第一次打坐
He can seat, throughout the year, he can seat 8,000 people.	他的餐馆一年可以容纳8,000人
Anybody in here has actually ever conducted a sabbatical?	听众里有没有人尝试过修长假呢？
Was not very successful. And so on and so forth.	那不是很成功。等等，等等。
And I understood that the building itself was a logo.	我才明白，那建筑本身就是一个标志
You put any image in there, like that Beethoven image.	把任何图像放上，例如贝多芬像
You can take the shape and make typography out of it.	您可以根据它的形状设计字样
There must be something else.	应该还可以利用它做些其他事
It says, "Self-confidence produces fine results."	上面说"自信产生优秀结果"
That's the police, getting rid of it all.	那是警察，把作品全扫光了
And my studio is very close to the monkey forest.	而我的工作室是在猴子森林边
And the monkeys in that monkey forest looked, actually, fairly happy.	这猴子森林的猴子看起来相当高兴
They did a fine job, but had a couple of readability problems.	他们做得很出色，但是有可读性问题
Then you can of course always go and see this guy.	你当然总是可以去看这个家伙
I'm happy I'm alive. I'm happy I'm alive.	我很高兴我活着我很高兴我活着
So I know what some of you must be thinking right now.	所以我知道你们其中有人一定在想，
And it's also a moment of self-awareness.	它也是一个自我意识的时刻。
His story is their story.	他的故事就是他们的故事。
His funeral songs will sing them a song about themselves.	他的葬礼之歌也是他们的颂扬之歌。
Chris has been so nice.	克里斯一直都是那么友好。
"Thank you for sharing, that's really interesting."	"谢谢你的分享，那真的很有趣。"
One of the -- Thank you for inviting us.	其中一个谢谢你邀请我们。
I was planning on finishing on a dance ...	我想我会用一段舞蹈来结束我的讲话
Who will start me with $1,000? Anyone?	谁愿意以1000美元开始？谁？
"How can your coffee be true?"	"你们的咖啡还是真的咖啡吗？"
And she's desperate to find more evidence for the link.	她急需找到这个连接的更多证据。
That's how TED brings these connections together.	TED就是这样把我们联系起来的。
: "Global problems require Scottish solutions."	"全球问题需要苏格兰的解决方法"
"British jobs for Scottish people ...	英国人为苏格兰人做的事情
"Christian principles, Christian values.	"基督教信条，基督教精神。"
Did anyone here have an Icelandic Internet account?	这里有人知道冰岛网络账户吗？
It didn't have that kind of collateral.	从来就没有这样的抵押品。
What does it have? It has fish, that's all.	它有什么？它有很多鱼，就这些了。
"And now it's got a hangover."	"而且现在还宿醉未醒。"
It's certainly something he can relate to.	显然这个比喻让布什可以感同身受。
And then, you're now, well, actually, that's what this is about.	但是，现在，实际上，那很精辟。
Now, there is a man on top of his job.	这就是一位十分尽忠自己工作的人。
And somebody was talking about metaphors on Monday.	然后星期一有人在讲比喻。
"Well, you know I'm sorry about that.	"好，你知道，我很抱歉。
I happen to believe it was a great error.	我也相信它是一个时代的结束。
"We're going to make sure you don't do it again."	"我们保证你不会有下一次。"
You were there, maybe, on the night of his victory.	你也许在选举成功的当晚。
"Not so easy is it? Heh heh heh."	"不是那么简单的吧？呵呵呵呵呵"
And we all want to believe in President Obama.	我们都希望相信奥巴马总统，
It's rather like that line in the film "As Good As it Gets."	就好象"尽善尽美"中的一句台词
But at the moment, it's a Cicero thing.	但是，那时，又有西塞罗的事情。
He says, "We need more boots on the ground in Afghanistan."	他说，"我们需要更支持阿富汗"
And everyone goes, "Great idea."	然后所有人说道，"好棒的主意"
Do you remember that? George Bush, "A nu-ca-ler."	你记得吗？乔治布什，"无无无核"
Sorry, what? "A nu-ca-ler."	对不起，什么？"无无无核"
Could you say "avuncular"? "Avunclear."	你能说"叔伯"吗？"叔伯"
I just think that's important. I really do.	我只是想这很重要，真的。
Do you remember dinosaurs when you were that age?	你还记得你小时候有多喜欢恐龙吗？
I hope you all realize that.	我们要从另一个角度来看待它们
What's the fascination?	恐龙到底有哪里特别吸引人？
And that happened for all museums.	当时几乎所有博物馆都是这样
You'd have a big dinosaur and a littler dinosaur.	既然有大恐龙就应该有小恐龙
But all they had were big dinosaurs.	但是我们现在看到的全是些大家伙
And it comes down to a couple of things.	这就让我们发现了几个问题
And in fact, he used the cassowary as an example.	然后他拿食火鸡举了个例子
And that's by actually cutting into their bones.	那就是切开它们的骨头进行分析
Guess where that came from? Dragon.	因为它和小说中描写的"龙"
And one would think, that should give me a clue.	这是不是应该给我们一点启示了？
Scientists like to name things.	因为科学家们最爱给东西起名字
And we know why, right?	我们都知道为什么，是吧？
So everyone had a big one.	所以每家博物馆都有一个大的
So Torosaurus is extinct.	所以牛角龙就这么"灭绝"了
It's a giant duck-bill dinosaur.	大鸭龙就是很大的鸭嘴恐龙
So we look at the bone histology.	同样，我们还是从它们的骨组织入手
So we can just keep doing this.	所以我们就可以一直不断地这么做
And the last one is T. Rex.	最后我要讲的是雷克斯暴龙
Again, makes you wonder.	现在我们自然而然产生怀疑了
So it must be true -- they must be different."	所以它们肯定是两种不同的恐龙
This is "Soft Sell" for 42nd Street.	这是第四十二街的"软推销"
How do you bring an intimacy into a hall?	你如何让大会堂整体上亲密接触?
The Times was deluged with criticism.	于是，外界对纽约时报指责如潮。
She was raped numerous times by many men.	她被很多男人奸污了很多次。
Oh, there have been some gimmicky ones.	对了，曾经有过一些小小的把戏。
It's really difficult to disentangle those strands.	要想解开这团迷线非常困难。
Men would just not be allowed into those situations.	男性是无法接近那些场合的。
Why is this important?	为什么这个研究值得重视？
And so I happened to have a snake pin.	所以我就有了一个蛇形的胸针。
So I wore it when we talked about Iraq.	当我们谈及伊拉克时，我就带着它。
And then I thought, well this is fun.	之后我想想。好吧这也很有趣。
So that's how it all started.	这一切就是胸针开始的来龙去脉。
And it goes with a book that says, "Read My Pins."	还有一本书叫"解读我的胸针。"
But people did pay attention to what clothes I had.	但是人们特关注我的着装。
Go out and look like a diplomat."	去购物，打扮看上去像个外交官。"
So that did give me a lot of opportunities to go shopping.	所以这让我有很多机会去购物。
So it evolved.	所以它就是这么演变来的。
But basically I love being a woman.	但基本上我喜欢作为一个女人。
The women in Bosnia were being raped.	在波斯尼亚的女性遭到强奸。
If you think that, you've forgotten high school.	如果你这样想，你已经忘记了高中。
Because one of the things I think you'll understand.	因为我想你会理解其中的一些事。
And so then Tarja was sitting across the table from me.	随后塔里娅坐到我桌子对面。
And my male colleagues kind of got it all of a sudden.	我的男性同事突然间懂了似的。
And I think we have a tendency to make each other feel guilty.	我认为我们往往会让对方感到内疚。
Thank you for joining us today.	谢谢你今天加入我们的会谈。
Crowds are gathered in Tahrir Square.	民众聚集在开罗塔利尔广场上，
Let's just stop for a second, actually, and think about that.	让我们先暂停下，说实话，咱想想，
This fantastic news didn't happen by itself.	这么神奇的事情不是自己发生的，
There's still work to do.	我们仍然有很多工作要做。
But it's heart-stopping. It's mind-blowing stuff.	但这是令人激动的刻骨铭心的事。
Makes us look really young.	这样我们看起来还很年轻。
So inertia versus momentum.	所以说是惰性与态势的对抗。
You can do something about that too.	你们同样可以对此行动起来。
But there's a vaccine for that too.	但这同样有疫苗可以预防。
Daylight, you could call it, transparency.	在日光下，可以这么讲，透明化。
It's getting harder to hide if you're doing bad stuff.	越来越难隐藏那些见不得人的事。
Once you have this knowledge, you can't un-know it.	而当你有了这些知识，你没法忘记。
It's not going to kill you.	这病毒并不会致你于死地。
In fact, it could save countless lives.	事实上，它会拯救无数的生命。
Shipping is as crucial to us as it has ever been.	海运对我们的重要性完全没有降低。
We are more dependent on it now than ever.	我们从没有像现在这样依赖海运。
You will ask someone on the street if they've heard of Microsoft.	你可以问路人是否听说过微软，
Nothing to see, move along.	没什么可看的，继续行进。
Now that's because shipping is very efficient.	这是因为海运效率非常高。
Containerization has made it very efficient.	集装箱的使用大大提高了其效率。
Ships have automation now.	现在的船只装有自动化系统。
They can operate with small crews.	他们只需要很少的船员就可以操作。
So that was a normal working ship.	这就是一艘普通的工作船只。
There were double pirate watches.	他们密切监视海盗的出现。
And shipping is the greenest method of transport.	而海运已经是最环保的运输方式了。
There are interesting initiatives going on.	一些有意思的初步行动正在展开。
But there are no laws governing acoustic pollution yet.	然而还没有法律来约束声音污染。
I'd really loved being on board Kendal.	我爱极了在肯德尔上的日子。
I will say that life involves computation.	我要说的是生命中有计算的过程
And they concentrate on using cells.	他们集中精力在利用细胞上
So, these are all the machines in a cell.	细胞中有所有这些"机器"
What's the smallest number we can get away with?	我们需要的最小数量是多少
So, you can go to a natural source.	所以,你可以找一个自然的来源
You look in his intestines. There are billions of bacteria.	来看他的肠子,有几十亿的细菌
And what happens is that we mix these strands together.	然后我们把它们混合在一起
And you can see a little bit of double helix forming there.	你能在这看到有一点双螺旋形成了
I ordered them; they came by FedEx.	我订购了这些,联邦快运送来的
Now, I want to get back to that compiler.	现在,我想再回去编译器的话题上
And we like to draw these tiles as little squares.	我们用小的正方形来代表这些模块
You can use DNA origami for that.	你可以用DNA"折纸"来当种子
And the neat thing about it is, is that it's also reprogrammable.	巧妙的是,它能够重复编写
So, this sort of recapitulates what I was telling you about development.	简单来概括一下我所讲的生长
So it's got some errors, but at least it counts up.	它有错误,但至少能越数越大
I guess we seem to be doing at least a few things right.	我想我们至少做对了几件事。
Now, let me ask you another question.	现在，让我问你另一个问题。
Most definitely you don't want to pay the bribe.	你理所当然地不想支付这笔赃款。
I don't want to be haunted by such images any more.	我不想再被此类梦魇侵扰。
It never has been and it never will be.	它永远不会是以简单的过程。
And he did not want to pay.	但某人不愿付这笔冤枉钱。
By the third time, in all 42 cases, we have achieved success.	每个案子最多不超过三次就完成了。
And we call that the meme-ome.	我们称之为"文化基因集合"。
And I want to kind of zoom in on that and see if we can get a little more resolution.	我们放大一点看看能不能清晰一点。
And they're looking at energy technology and nuclear fusion.	他们聚焦在能源技术和核聚变。
There's another one about personal health and nutrition.	有个是关于个人健康与营养的。
It's literally defining a new field.	它事实上是在定义一个新的领域。
Teachers paid less than what it costs them to be here.	老师们拿着不足以维持生计的薪水，
Social lines are barbed wire.	像有一张铁丝网横在我们中间一样。
The need for degrees has left so many people frozen.	对学位的需求让许多人感到害怕。
And all of the items on it are unremarkable.	这上面所写的东西都很平常。
To serve other people, not to manipulate other people.	为他人服务，而不是应付他人。
And you need to be mentored by wise teachers.	你也需要一个明智的导师来指导你。
At TED, brilliance is rampant.	在TED，才华无限制的蔓延着。
It's a story about lemonade.	这是一个关于柠檬水的故事。
Dad, being an academic, had no idea that Mike's Hard Lemonade contained alcohol.	这个父亲完全不知道里面含了酒精。
And they were ready to let the kid go.	然后才可以让这孩子离开。
At that point, can the child go home?	都这样了，这孩子能回家了吗？
How do things like this happen?	这样的事怎么可能发生呢？
What else, after all, is there?	究竟还有什么其他的东西呢？
Here's an example from Chicago kindergarten.	这是一个芝加哥幼儿园的例子。
We know why these scripts are there.	我们清楚为什么会有这样的教案。
There was going to be a national referendum.	那时举行了全国性的公民投票。
Astonishingly, 50 percent of the citizens said yes.	吃惊的是，50%的公民说愿意。
Get smarter incentives.	建立更加巧妙的激励机制。
We see this in medicine.	我们能在制药行业看到这些。
And we certainly see it in the world of business.	我当然也能在商业世界里看到这些。
What to do instead?	除此之外还可以做什么呢？
People are inspired by moral heroes.	人们会被道德英雄们激励。
That's one thing we can do.	这是我们可以做的一件事。
Why? Because it was the right thing to do.	为什么呢？因为这是正确的事。
His employees are inspired by the effort.	他的员工被他的作为所激励。
And you don't have to be a mega-hero.	你也不必非要去当个超级英雄。
And there are a few things that we have to remember as teachers.	作为老师有一些东西我们应该记住。
They need to learn to respect their schoolmates.	他们需要学习尊重他们的同学。
I think there is reason for hope.	我认为呼吁期望是有原因的。
I think people want to be allowed to be virtuous.	我想人都希望能够善良/有道德。
You're going to give us an arm."	是想让你为我们做一只手臂。"
So, I decided we've got to do this.	所以，我决定我要做这个义肢。
And I've got a lot of day jobs.	所以光是白天的工作都已经很多了。
And I told them I'd build them an arm.	我说我会给他们做一只义肢。
This is Chuck showing simultaneous control of all the joints.	这是查克在同时运用所有的关节。
It doesn't matter whether the Department of Defense likes this arm."	国防部喜不喜欢这个手臂也不要紧。
And we started asking them all questions.	我们问了他们很多我们想知道的事。
"Guys, and woman, you've given enough.	大家听我说，你们给予的够多了。
He was leaning on his other arm.	而他正用另一只手撑着脑袋
He had a great spirit, like all the rest of them had great spirits.	他有伟大的精神，他们都有。
And then the meeting ended. We said goodbye to all these guys.	聚会结束后，我们向所有的人道别，
And that guy pushed himself back from the table ...	然后那人把自己从桌子边推出，
And I started working harder, faster.	我开始更努力地、更快地工作。
Then we went out to Brooke Army Medical Center.	然后我们去了布鲁克陆军医学中心。
You think I'll be able to drive it?"	你觉得我还能再开它么？"
I was asked to stop at Texas.	我被邀请去了德克萨斯州。
I said, "What am I going to say?	我说，"我该说些什么呢？
Some further along than others.	有些人比其他人伤的更严重。
Wilbur and Orville.	那是威尔伯和奥威尔制造的。
And whining and complaining about what our foreign policy ought to be.	关于我们外交政策的抱怨。
This is a time of need.	现在正是需要创造力的时候
Sure, she had aged a little.	当然，她的年纪是稍微大了一点
In fact, she had aged a lot.	事实上，她的年纪确实比较大了
But he felt all his old passion for her return.	但是她的归来重新燃起了他的热情
The earth moved for both of them.	连地球都为他们两个而感动
And they lived together happily ever after.	从此以后，他们幸福的生活在一起
The moral imperative is on the table.	相应的道德准则也已尽人皆知
And let's do it soon. Thank you.	让我们马上行动起来！谢谢
That one was way more difficult than I had expected.	那次要比我想象的困难许多。
So, I realized that was completely not going to work.	于是我意识到简单的模拟行不通，
So, that clearly wasn't going to work.	好了，很显然它是不会起作用的。
Then I actually started thinking about liquid breathing.	接着我开始考虑试试液体呼吸。
There is a chemical that's called perflubron.	有一种叫全氟化合物的化学药剂，
Which was another insane idea, obviously.	但这显然又是另一个疯狂的想法。
So, I started researching into pearl divers.	于是我开始搜集有关采珠人的信息。
And I learned how to slow my heart rate down.	我也学到了怎样减缓我的心率。
And then I learned how to purge.	然后我学了怎样净化呼吸，
And you're really ridding your body of CO2.	这样就可以排除身体内的CO2，
You feel like you're walking around in a daze.	就好像在一片耀眼中行走，
Basically, I'm not the best person to talk to when I'm doing that stuff.	似乎我属于做的出却描述不出的人。
I started learning about the world-record holder.	我开始了解到这个记录的保持者
And his total lung capacity is twice the size of an average person.	而且他的肺活量是正常人的2倍。
We'll say big-boned.	或者可以硬是说成骨架比较大。
I had to drop 50 pounds in three months.	所以我必须在三个月内减掉50磅。
I ate really small controlled portions throughout the day.	一天内我都保持吃非常小量的食物，
The thinner I was, the longer I was able to hold my breath.	我越瘦，就越能长时间屏住呼吸。
Which is lower than most Olympic athletes.	比多数奥林匹克选手都要低。
I wanted to try holding my breath everywhere.	我在任何地方都训练屏气，
I entered the sphere a week before the scheduled air date.	我提前一个礼拜去到中心，
And I thought everything seemed to be on track.	感觉一切都渐渐上了轨道，
This was a critical mistake.	这被证明是个极严重的错误。
So, it was a pretty big success.	这已经算是不小的成功了。
I then announced that I was going to go for Sietas' record, publicly.	终于我宣布公开挑战斯塔斯的记录，
And it was right next to the sphere.	它就在放置在我的球型水缸旁边，
And there is no way to slow my heart rate down.	而且我竟然没有办法去降低心率。
I'm going to fail, I'm going to fail."	我要失败了，我要失败了。"
I also didn't want anybody to question it.	当然我不希望任何人怀疑，
What is one of these organizations to pick?	这三个组织中该选哪一个呢？
My country is dominated by drug economy and a mafia.	我的国家被毒品经济和黑手党所操控
It takes 20 years to produce somebody with a Ph.D.	20年来培养一个有博士学位的人
Do we need to repeat the modalities that we have inherited?	我们需要重复我们所继承的方式吗？
You've stayed away from the problems of corruption.	你们已经远离了腐败问题。
You only want clean environments in which to function.	你们只想看到干净的环境。
It's for your own immediate use.	只是为了你们自己即时的用处。
This is not right. It requires thinking.	这是不正确。需要我们来思考一下。
Will democracy flourish? What scares you most?	民主可否繁荣？什么使你最为生畏？
Any meaningful sort of thing.	所有像这样有意义的东西。
We were bombed practically out of existence.	我们几乎已经快被轰炸给灭绝了。
And what is their predominant concern?	而他们的最主要的担忧是什么呢？
Yes, I have an advisory position with the U.N.	是的，我在联合国有着顾问的职位。
You know, they engage.	你知道，他们参与进来了。
The key to the drug eradication is jobs.	根除毒品的关键在于工作。
Trade is the key, not aid.	贸易是关键，而不是援助。
The U.S. and Europe should give us a zero percent tariff.	美国和欧洲应该给我们零关税。
What we want is a partnership with the Italian design firms.	我们需要与意大利的设计公司合作。
Yeah, we have the best embroiderers in the world!	是的，我们有全世界最好的缝纫师！
The aid system does not have the knowledge, the vision, the ability.	它不具备只是远见，和能力。
Congratulations. You have now completed setup.	祝贺你。你已完成安装步骤。
Tamara, would you like to jump in?	Tamara，你可以帮个忙吗？
I have a picture here from a video, and we're now going to play it.	我有一段视频，我们现在就来播放它
We're all very, very familiar with the Internet.	我们都非常、非常熟悉互联网
Oh, there we are. We can save it now.	好了。现在我们可以将其保存
: ... extremely dangerous questions.	……这是极端危险的问题。
It will cause rising seas. It will cause saline deposited into wells and into lands.	这将会导致海平面上升，海水倒灌
Most of them were about resources.	其中大部分都是为了争夺资源
We are facing an unprecedented number, scale of disasters.	我们正面对前所未有的危机
Some are weather-related, human-rights related, epidemics.	有些是关乎天气的，有些是关乎人的
Let's look at one case, the case of Bangladesh.	我们来看看孟加拉的例子吧。
What will that do to Bangladesh? Let's take a look.	这会给孟加拉带来什么变化?
So here's Bangladesh.	我们不妨看看，这里就是孟加拉，
Looking at the five major rivers that feed Bangladesh.	再看看途径孟加拉的五大河流
And now let's look from the south, looking up, and let's see this in relief.	再从南往北看，看看这个三维的图像
It's just the beginning, unfortunately.	不幸的是，这一切都仅仅是开始
It's more than enough reason for pessimism.	看来使人悲观的事情还非常多
But now let's look at the case for optimism.	但我们还是来看一下乐观的理由吧
This disease is called sudden wealth syndrome.	它的名字叫"暴富综合症"
They're not waiting until they die to create foundations.	他们不会等到临死才去创立基金会
Al Gore made presentations in the House and the Senate as an expert witness.	戈尔以专家身份在参众两院作证
Now we actually have been doing it for a long time.	现在我们实际上已经转变了很久了。
There isn't a dog on this earth that's a natural creature.	在生态环境下地球上没有狗。
We don't have to do it that way anymore.	我们再也不必在这样做了。
A beefalo is a buffalo-cattle hybrid.	皮弗娄牛是水牛和肉牛的杂交种。
I think they said it tasted like chicken.	我记得他们说它尝起来像鸡肉。
And they are now using these in certain cultures.	它们现已在某些环境下得到利用。
And then finally, everybody's favorite, the zorse.	接着最后，大家的最爱，卓斯马，
We all know that some deep-sea creatures glow.	我们都知道一些深海动物发光。
So they did it with mouse pups, kittens.	于是他们把它用在幼鼠上，小猫上。
Be easier to find us at night.	在夜晚就更容易发现我们。
This is Prometea, the first cloned horse.	这是普罗提耶，第一匹马。
The guar is an endangered Southeast Asian ungulate.	瓜尔牛是东南亚濒危蹄类动物。
That DNA is passed down through our mothers.	这种DNA是从母系上得到传承。
These are really hybrids, not pure animals.	它们实际上是杂交种，而不是纯种。
This lovely creature is an Asian cockroach.	这些可爱的生物是亚洲蟑螂。
These goliath beetles are wired in their wings.	这些歌利亚甲虫在翅膀上有天线。
But it's the closest they can get to a landing.	但是这是他们能降落的最近高度。
They've now created an organic robot.	他们已经创造出了生物机器人。
We've taken away the autonomy of this animal."	我们剥夺了这动物的自主权。"
This is where we are in this process.	这就是我们在这个过程中的进度。
This is what Frankenstein's lab looks like.	这才是弗兰肯斯坦实验室的原貌。
Do we have free reign to design animals?	我们是否可以无约束地设计生命体？
He had seen people of different colors living in different places.	也看到了不同地方不同肤色的人。
If only Darwin lived today.	要是达尔文活在今天该多好。
And that skin pigmentation itself was a product of evolution.	肤色本身就是进化的产物。
UVB turns out to be incredibly important.	其中UVB扮演着极其重要的角色。
But then we moved.	但随后，我们开始了迁移。
Now this had all sorts of invidious social consequences.	这引发了许多令人憎恶的社会现象，
So how can we overcome this?	所以我们应当如何来克服这一点呢？
How can we begin to understand it?	我们应当如何开始理解这一点呢？
This man is significant for a whole host of reasons.	他所代表着的重大意义是各方面的。
And most of all, he would teach it.	最重要的是，他会教导这一点。
Understand it. Appreciate it. Celebrate it.	理解它。欣赏它。庆祝它。
Please excuse me for sitting; I'm very old.	请原谅我坐着讲；我很老了。
Now this is the real. It's a cauliflower.	这个是真实的，这是一个菜花。
I've been looking at these things for so long.	我观察这些事物很长时间了。
So these numbers are the numbers which denote the roughness of these surfaces.	这些数字表示这些表面的粗糙度。
To the right, I took a higher roughness.	在右边，我采取了更高的粗糙度
What's the length of the coastline of these lakes?	这些湖泊的湖岸线长度是多少？
The closer you measure, the longer it is.	你测量得越精确，结果越长。
Now look at that. That's a real lung.	现在看看这个，这是一个真正的肺。
The volume of a lung is very small, but what about the area of the lung?	肺的体积也很小。但肺的面积呢？
Anatomists were arguing very much about that.	解剖学家们对此争论很大。
And the others say, no, five basketball [courts].	有人说，不对，是五个篮球。
And at the end, you get things like that.	最后，你将得到这样的东西。
Now this simple rule is not an explanation of clouds.	这个简单规则不是对云的一个解释。
The seer of clouds had to take account of it.	云的观察者必须把它考虑在内。
Mathematicians began to create shapes that didn't exist.	数学家开始创造不存在的形状
And well, it's a story unto itself.	那么，它本身就是一个故事。
The great painter Hokusai knew it very well.	大画家葛饰北斋很了解它。
And he was Japanese who had no contact with the West.	他是日本人，没有接触过西方文化。
I could speak of that for a long time.	我讲这个可以将很长时间。
The Eiffel Tower has a fractal aspect.	埃佛尔铁塔也有分数维的方面。
This is a mess, mess, mess, Brownian loop.	这是一个乱糟糟的布朗环。
I see; it's an island."	我看到了，这是一个岛。"
To the left you see data over a long period.	在左边您看到的是长期数据。
Where are real price increments?	真实的价格增量在哪里呢？
And you have the little nonsense which is left.	您就没有什么好胡搅蛮缠的了。
That is the meat, the problem.	那才是肉，是问题的所在。
It's so simple, so dry.	它是那么简单，相当简单。
This comes out. This comes out.	这个出来了。这个出来了。
Obviously, from extraterrestrials.	显然，从外星人那里来的。
This shape here just came out of an exercise in pure mathematics.	这个形状仅仅出自纯数学的一个练习
I think that is too simplistic.	我觉得这答案未免太幼稚了。
Why? Because it makes a lot of sense.	为什么？因为这很符合常规，
Because we want these puzzles to be difficult.	因为我们就是希望问题再难一些。
Anyone? It's much more difficult.	有人想试吗？这个会难些。
Less effort, you're less persistent, and so on.	没那么努力，没那么有毅力，等等。
You will spend less time compared to you.	A组的人花的时间比B组的人要少。
Now, that brings us now to, why does this happen?	现在我们会疑惑，怎么是这样呢？
It all has to do with when you face what I call the INCA.	这就和你所面临的INCA有关了。
Right? Second, it is negative.	对吧？其次，是结果都是消极的。
Remember, the deck was stacked against you.	记住，因为这些问题具有难度，
And this can happen in the medical domain.	这种情况会在医学界发生。
Right? It can happen in the stock market.	对吧？这同样也适用于股票市场。
And the feedback in all these cases is concrete.	在这些例子中，结果都是很具体的
I want to finish up on a more upbeat note.	我现在想用乐观点的色调来结尾。
That was a turning point for my life.	这是我生命的一个转折点。
His livelihood is predetermined by the conditions of grinding poverty.	他的生活早已被无休止的贫穷注定。
And that business is agriculture.	而这里所说的买卖就是农业。
And this leads to very high handling costs.	这就导致了非常高昂的处理费。
It will also transform the way traders do business.	这还会改变商人做生意的方式。
Can Ethiopia do this?	埃塞俄比亚能做到这样吗？
And as the sandstone weathers, new grains break free.	随着岩石风化，新的沙粒形成。
The name means "edge of the desert."	这个名字的意思是"沙漠的边缘"。
This is a catastrophe waiting to happen again.	这样的大灾难正伺机卷土重来。
And it's one that gets very little attention.	但它却很少受到人们的注意。
But, how far away is it?	那么，它现在离我们有多远呢？
This is where the village used to be.	这是他们村子曾经所在的地方。
How do we glue those grains of sand together?	我们又怎样把沙粒粘合在一起？
The whole cementation process takes about 24 hours.	整个粘结过程大概需要24个小时。
So, how much would this cost?	那么，这个项目要花费多少呢？
How do we construct something like this?	我们该怎么构建想这样的东西呢？
Well, I'll quickly show you two options.	我这就为你们展示两种选择。
But, what should they look like?	但是，它们该是什么样子的呢？
And I think this creates a kind of boundless beauty actually.	我想着确实是创造了一种无尽的美。
Sand-stopping devices, made from sand.	来自于沙的阻止沙前进的设备。
And quite frankly, we're putting our heads in the sand.	坦白说我们正把目光投向沙漠。
But, it's a beginning, it's a vision.	但是，这只是一个开始，一个展望。
As Borges would have it, it's the sand.	如博尔赫斯所说，这是沙子。
We call this the Global Village Construction Set.	我们称其为全球农村制造组件。
So let me tell you a story.	让我来告诉你们一个故事。
I bought a tractor -- then it broke.	我买了一个拖拉机-然后坏了。
I paid to get it repaired -- then it broke again.	我付钱修好--接着又坏了。
I found that I would have to build them myself.	我发现我只能自己来制造这些工具。
And now the project is beginning to grow on its own.	现在这个项目已经开始独立成熟。
That's not only in the developing world.	这不只是针对发展中国家。
I've planted a hundred trees in a day.	我曾在一天内种了几百棵树。
From what I've seen, this is only the beginning.	依我所见，这只是一个开始。
It's the runs, the Hershey squirts, the squits.	它就是一种持续的排泄喷射。
And here's another image of diarrhea.	而这是另一张关于腹泻的图片。
But we know how to fix this.	但是我们知道怎么解决这个问题。
Child mortality dropped by the most it had ever dropped in history.	儿童死亡率是历史上下降最厉害的。
It's a wonderful waste disposal device.	它真是一个非常好的废物处理装置。
No one's going to refuse clean water.	没有人会拒绝喝干净的水，
And I understand that. Who can blame them?	我可以理解这点。谁又会怪她们呢？
We ingest nutrients. We excrete nutrients as well.	我们摄取营养素同时也排泄营养素。
So these are a bunch of inmates in a prison in Butare.	这些是布塔雷监狱里的一些犯人，
Maybe it's the ick factor.	也许是因为它倒人胃口的一面。
That's what really made them change their behavior.	这个真的改变了他们的行为。
It's the most off-track Millennium Development Goal.	这是最偏离轨道的千年发展目标。
Our sewers are crumbling.	我们的下水道也在摇摇欲坠。
The solution to all of this is pretty easy.	解决这所有问题也非常简单。
And it was really a lot of fun for about 10 years.	这项工作充满了乐趣前后大约十年
I put half the lab up in my house.	我把半个实验室搬到了我家里
We know that hurricanes have always happened in the past."	我们知道飓风历来都在发生。"
And within a few months after that sea urchin dying, the seaweed started to grow.	海胆死后几个月之内海藻就开始生长
And so I'm going to sort of go through and talk about those three kinds of things.	因此我想梳理并谈论一下这三件事情
Industrial fishing uses big stuff, big machinery.	工业化捕捞用的是大家伙大机器
And the habitat destruction is unbelievable.	那种栖息地的灭绝简直令人难以置信
The green revolution, all of this artificial nitrogen fertilizer, we use too much of it.	绿色革命让我们过度使用人工氮肥
And that's retirement homes on the west coast of Florida.	那是老人院在佛罗里达西海岸
It was when I was on holiday last early autumn in France.	这是我去年初秋在法国度假时拍的
The governments of the world are taking this really seriously.	全世界的政府都在严肃对待这件事情
But when it gets too hot, the algae can't make the sugar.	但当温度过高时藻类就无法制造糖分
Sometimes you have a toxic bloom; sometimes you don't.	有时你会碰上有毒水华有时又没有
We say it becomes more strongly stratified.	我们称之为越来越严重的层化
"Kew, kew, kew -- watch out."	咻,咻,咻--"小心!"
The sandworms were fine, but your favorite character?	沙虫固然好,但你认为它是我的菜?
How did this happen? When did this happen?	这是如何发生的?什么时候发生的?
So we're caught in a kind of trap.	因此我们陷入了一个陷阱。
It's a dilemma, a dilemma of growth.	这是一个困境，一个成长的困境。
And I think we are a clever species sometimes.	有些时候我认为我们是聪明的物种。
It's around about 770 grams of carbon.	这大约是七百七十克的碳。
It's a bit complex, and I apologize for that.	这有些复杂，为此我表示歉意。
They want to hunker down, they want to look to the future.	他们想顽固坚持。他们想依靠未来。
They want to spend less and save more.	他们想消费较少而储储蓄更多。
Well, I had my own personal insight into this a few years ago.	我对此有自己的见解几年前。
"What is the objective of the consumer?"	"消费者的目的是什么？"
What we've done is we've created economies.	我们所做的是，我们创造了经济。
It isn't, in fact, about curtailing possibilities.	它不是，事实上，关于删减可能性。
What does all this mean for economics?	这一切对经济意味着什么呢？
And I just want to, very quickly, show you this.	我很快地向你演示一下这个。
Ecosia is an Internet search engine.	Ecosia是一个网络搜索引擎。
And Ecosia works in pretty much the same way.	Ecosia也以同样的方式运营。
Investment has to be a different beast.	投资必须得成为一个不同的猛兽。
It has to be investing in low-carbon technologies and infrastructures.	它要投资到低碳科技和基础设施上。
And of course, this task has material dimensions.	当然，这个任务有物质层面。
What can we offer those people?	我们可以向这些人提供什么？
Prosperity is a shared endeavor.	繁荣就是一个共同的努力。
So this is not about standing in the way of development.	所以这不是关于代替发展。
Actually, I already am seeing a little bit of it.	实际上，我已经看到了一些。
You may want to take a closer look.	你可能想要离近点儿看它。
I painted it directly on top of the man.	我直接在这个人的身体上作画。
There's no Photoshop here.	我并没有使用图像处理软件。
I came up with the idea of painting shadows.	于是我想出了画阴影的想法。
I had turned my friend into a painting.	我把我的朋友变成了一幅画。
Why did this have to get in the way of all that?	为什么这个要在其中挡路？
I had no idea where to begin.	我真不知道应该从哪里开始。
All right, well, hide your face.	那么，好吧，把你的脸藏起来吧。
It takes off. It's a big woosh.	然后它"呼"的一声，就熄灭了。
Let me tell you a little bit about this chemistry of oil.	让我来给你们讲讲石油的化学成分。
They're very important in oil spills.	它们在石油泄漏中十分的重要。
It's incredibly hard to clean up.	清理的困难程度让人难以置信。
And every single oil is different when it hits water.	并且每一滴接触到水面的油都不同。
They set the prices, and I don't even know.	我对他们如何决定价格毫不知情。
It is green. It is a shrine to greenishness.	它是绿色的，它仿佛一座绿色圣殿。
I mean -- and this is funny, it looks funny here.	这挺有意思的。看起来很可笑。
Okay, so that guy is actually still with us.	所以那个人仍然和我们在一起。
Everything that we are really stemmed from this period.	所有的一切都起源于这个时期。
We put it in. There was a tremendous banditry problem.	这是一个巨大的盗匪问题。
I was there in 2003.	二零零三年的时候我在那里。
They have their own private sort of army around them at the oil fields.	他们在油田有自己的私人军队驻守。
It's become this intense industrialized zone.	它变成了如此紧张的工业区。
One thing is -- we need to stay away from the theater.	其一就是，我们需要远离那些噱头。
We need to focus really back again on the molecules.	我们应该回过头来关注那些分子。
We need to remove the perverse incentives to use more fuel.	我们需要尽量避免耗费更多的燃料。
So you're not helpless at the pump.	如此在加油站的你将不再感觉无助。
We are going to watch "Afghan Star." We are late.	我们要看"阿富汗之星"已经晚了
Because each year the winner has come from a different tribal group.	因为每年的冠军都来自不同的部落
It turns out that competition and winning is a universal human value.	看来竞争和好胜是全人类的价值取向
They don't sing pop songs, they sing Afghan music.	他们不唱流行歌曲他们唱阿富汗民歌
I heard about this lake, Lake Imja.	我听说了这个湖泊，映佳湖。
The other thing which was so challenging about this swim is not just the altitude.	这次游泳的挑战不仅仅只有海拔。
And we walked up this pathway, all the way up.	然后我们就沿着这条路一直走上去。
I have never, ever heard such utter bollocks.	我从来没有听过这样的胡说八道。
We want you to walk up the hill in another two days' time.	我们想让你花两天走上山。
Instead of swimming crawl, swim breaststroke.	不用自由泳，但是用蛙泳。
And remember, never ever swim with aggression.	然后记住，不要游太激奋。
So anyway, who am I?	好，我们开始吧。首先我是谁？
And I really should have said something smart.	本来应该说点其他有趣的东西
Now, this is actually becoming such an interesting idea.	这样的想法正变得非常有趣
And this is sort of Babbage's revenge.	有点像是巴贝奇最初设计的计算机
So, that's about three light switches lined up.	可以看到有三个并排的电灯开关
So we've got autonomous replication of bit strings.	我们看到了比特串的自复制
This is literally the colored sequence of those tiles.	这就是那些已经被染色的砖块的照片
And the universe is now a compiler.	整个宇宙就是一台汇编机器
Now you've finished the lens, you literally pop it out.	做好镜片之后，把它敲出来
But they can show you how to build things in sequence.	他们的产品就是最好的明证
Interesting things like that.	还有很多此类的有意思的事情
But it's definitely an interesting new worldview.	但必然是很有趣的一种视野
So maybe I'll do that with this short video.	也许可以放这个视频给大家看
This is a kite designed by a guy called Dave Kulp.	这是由DaveKulp设计的风筝
And why do you want a 3,000-square-foot kite?	为何要做这么大的风筝呢？
So I've been working on this a little, also, with a couple of other guys.	我也在跟一些朋友在做这个
That shouldn't be news to any of us.	这对我们来说已经不是什么新闻了
And it is possible, of course, to increase the density of the communities around us.	增加社区的密度，当然是完全可能的
So we light our buildings with daylight.	我们让建筑物采用自然采光
These things actually become cheaper to build than the alternatives.	建筑成本也因此比之前有所降低
So we have visions like this.	因此我们就有了这样的想象
You can find four or five passages in the Bible of this ilk.	在圣经中能找到四、五段这样的记录
And what does he see but a burglar with a gun in his hand.	他看到一个盗贼正拿着一把抢。
Damien runs a hotel outside of Kinshasa.	达米安在金沙萨外经营着一家酒店
But it is a place where sex workers and their clients come.	但却是性工作者和其客户光顾的地方
Now Damien knows all about condoms, but he doesn't sell them.	达米安很了解避孕套却不销售
And as a marketer, I found that curious.	作为一名营销人员我对此很好奇
And so I started to look at what the marketing looked like.	因此我开始对营销进行观察
It might just save their lives.	也许这样就能挽救他们的生命了。
And what is the definition then? "The definition?	那定义是什么呢？"定义？
Everyone knows," they say.	每个人都知道，"他们说到，
Exactly what the students said was their concept about the world.	这就正是我的学生概念中的世界。
They had small families and long life.	他们有较小的家庭和较长的寿命。
Then the developing countries applied soap and water, vaccination.	发展中国家应用了肥皂和水，疫苗。
We have Liberia. We have Congo.	我们还有黎巴嫩。有刚果。
So we have countries living there.	所以我们还有国家生活在那里。
Look here when I move them forward.	看这里，当我把他们向前移动时。
They catch up. There's Mexico.	他们迎头赶上。这是墨西哥。
It's on par with United States in these two social dimensions.	在这两个社会层面是和美国一样的。
Income per person. I can put that here.	人均收入。我可以放在这里。
And I can find United States up there.	这样我可以在上面这里找到美国。
And I can let the other countries be shown.	而且我可以显示其他的国家。
And now I have income per person on this axis.	现在我在这个坐标轴上有人均收入。
Here we come. And that was the influenza.	我们开始了。那就是大流感。
It's still remembered. The fall of life expectancy.	我们仍然记得。寿命的缩短。
And my youngest son, who studied Chinese in Beijing.	而我的小儿子，在北京学习中文。
This is East Asia, and the light blue there is South Asia.	这是东亚。南亚是这个浅蓝色。
And this is how the world changed.	而这是世界上这样变化的。
Because it's so different, what has happened there.	因为那里所发生的非常不同。
And you have huge differences within countries also.	我们在国家间也有巨大的不同。
Now all your different departments.	你现在在不同的地区都有不同。
East Europe, Latin America, and OECD countries.	东欧，拉丁美洲，和经合组织国家。
And then it's United States today, up here.	然后这是今天的美国，在这里上面。
Now, this is the important thing of understanding how the world has changed.	现在是了解世界怎样变化的关键。
At this point I decided to make a pause.	在这里我觉得我需要做一个发言。
And they are highly skilled professionals.	他们在他们的范围内都是专家。
With income down there and child mortality.	收入在这里，然后儿童死亡率。
And it is the DHS that makes it possible to know this.	这是靠国家安全局才知道的。
And we had an increase in income.	我们在收入上有一个增加。
Let's see what Sweden has done.	让我们来看看瑞典做了什么。
We used to boast about fast social progress.	我们曾经吹嘘快速的社会进步。
I run Sweden the same 16 year period.	在接下来的16年里瑞典还是一样。
This means that the world is converging.	那就意味这世界在一体化。
Singapore had twice the child mortality of Sweden.	新加坡的儿童死亡率是瑞典的两倍。
And here we go. It took a little time for them to get independent.	开始了。他们独立花了一点时间。
But then they started to grow their economy.	但是他们开始开展他们的经济。
We never thought it would happen that they would win over Sweden!	我们从来没有想到他们会赢瑞典！
These yellow are just about to be doing this.	这些黄色的也正准备着手开始。
You see the tragedy in South Africa there.	你可以在那看到在南非的悲剧。
About 20 percent of the adult population are infected.	大概有20%的成年人口被感染了。
And there are others who are extremely high.	而这里也有那些数目十分高的国家。
Because here, in Congo, there is war.	因为这里，在刚果，这里有战争。
And here, in Zambia, there is peace.	这里，在赞比亚，这里有和平。
We have seen it here in Mozambique.	我们在莫桑比克已经看到了。
You never heard about the disease.	你从来没有听过这种疾病。
But it's much more than Ebola that has been affected by this disease.	但是这比伊波拉所感染的人还要多。
Cause crippling throughout the world.	这造成了世界各地的瘫痪。
They are still as poor as they've ever been.	他们仍然和以前一样贫穷。
Just absolutely delights the little ones.	这大大方便了那些个子比较矮的人。
It's either for the better or for the worse, OK.	你们总是有福同享，有难同当。
Now, back to the unfolding apocalypse.	现在，回到那本未开启的启示录。
So that is a non-zero-sum dynamic.	所以这是一种非零和机制。
And I think the answer is a lot of different people are going to have to do a lot of different things.	我的回答是，我们所有人各尽其责。
You don't want it to make sense, right?	你不想承认这个因果关系，对吗？
One, because the benefits of the Marshall Plan have been overstated.	首先，马歇尔计划的成果被夸大了
But the effect of that presentation is, it appeals to sympathy.	但是那些报道的作用只是祈求同情
It appeals to pity. It appeals to something called charity.	祈求怜悯，祈求那些所谓的援助
We should deliver medicines to those who are ill.	我们应该给生病的人送去医药
But equally, it has opportunities and a lot of potential.	但是同时，也有很多的发展潜力
It should be a challenge of creating wealth.	而应该是一个创造财富的考验
But they also succeed at the job of entrepreneurship.	但他们同样可以胜任企业家这个工作
So, where should we be putting the money?	所以，我们应该把钱用在什么地方？
Does any one of you in the audience have that person?	你们谁听说过有这样的例子
Because all governments across the world need money to survive.	因为所有政府都需要钱去维持
Why should people support their government?	为什么人们应该去支持他们的政府？
It will sit with those who create wealth.	它会和那些能创造财富的人坐下来
Governments are not changing it. Why?	政府不去改变这些，这是为什么？
Because they don't need to talk to their own citizens.	因为他们不需要去和他们的国民谈
So, why was psychology good?	那么，为什么说心理学的现状好呢？
That we could understand the causality of the mental illnesses.	我们可以了解精神疾病的前因后果
And we forgot that people made choices and decisions.	我们忘了人们是会做选择、做决定的
The second cost was that we forgot about you people.	第二根损失是我们忘记了你们这些人
We forgot about improving normal lives.	我们忘记了要去提高正常人的生活
They don't sit in seminars on Saturday morning.	他们不喜欢在星期六早晨去上研讨班
And I'm going to suggest to you that's not nearly enough, in just a moment.	我待会就会告诉你们，这是不够的
The first happy life is the pleasant life.	第一种幸福生活是快乐的人生
Pleasure has raw feels: you know it's happening. It's thought and feeling.	快乐的时候，你能感觉到自己的快乐
You're one with the music. Time stops.	你全身心投入音乐中，时间停止了
And this is indeed the characteristic of what we think of as the good life.	我们认为这是美好生活的特征
And the answer seems to be yes. And I'll just give you some samples of it.	答案看来是肯定的，我来举几个例子
And fun versus philanthropy.	"趣味对慈善"也是一种方法
And this is really what you're about. And that's our target variable.	这是我们要寻找的目标变量
Let's just start by looking at some great photographs.	让我们首先来看一些优秀的摄影作品
He mounted a camera on the tail.	他把相机绑在了飞机垂直尾翼上
I got him. The wave broke over us.	终于我抱住了他，浪打在我们身上
You've got to be able to make them all the time.	除了保证自己能不断拍出好的作品
And that is what Nick did, up to a point.	尼克在一开始也正是这么做的
And Nick ended up with a lot of pictures of the rear ends of baboons.	不过其中大部分都是狒狒屁股
And a crocodile walks up a riverbank toward its den.	一只鳄鱼从水里爬回自己的窝
I love this little bit of water that comes off the back of his tail.	我非常喜欢它尾巴上滴落的这些水珠
And instead, created a story that touched our audiences deeply.	而是一个让我们深思的故事
Now let's go over to India.	现在我们把目光转移到印度
Let's go all over the world and photograph every single slum around the world."	让我们拍遍世界每个角落的贫民窟"
But then Paul got in the water.	然后保罗也跟着它们下水了
Which just resulted in a fantastic photograph.	于是保罗拍下了这张搞笑的照片
Let me start with the study that made me rethink my whole approach to stress.	先来谈让我对压力另有看法的研究
Here I've been spending so much energy telling people stress is bad for your health.	我一直努力告诉他人压力有碍健康
You're not very good at this, are you?	这方面你们不太行，对吧？
Okay, so you get the idea.	现在大家弄清楚是怎么ㄧ回事了
It's getting more oxygen to your brain.	这是为了让大脑得到更多氧气
It's not really healthy to be in this state all the time.	总是如此，对健康不是好事
And we just did a little intervention.	刚才我们所做的就是疗程的一小部分
But this is a very small part of what oxytocin is involved in.	但这只是它的一小部分作用
Oxytocin makes you crave physical contact with your friends and family.	催产素让人渴望亲友间的肢体接触
It also helps your blood vessels stay relaxed during stress.	还能帮血管在压力下保持松弛
But my favorite effect on the body is actually on the heart.	但我最爱它对心脏的生理效果
Stress gives us access to our hearts.	压力让我们跟自己的心沟通
That's the part that's broken.	这一部分就是有问题的部分。
We use three key technologies.	我们使用三个关键性的技术。
The first is electric autonomous flying vehicles.	第一个是电动自主飞行器。
Let's look at each one of those technologies in a bit more detail.	让我们来具体的看一下这三项技术。
Costs are coming down very rapidly.	它们的成本在迅速地下降。
Half a billion of us live in megacities.	五亿人口生活在超大城市里。
Congestion is a huge problem.	交通堵塞是一个巨大的问题。
So why are we doing this?	那我们为什么还要这样做？
By the end of the talk, we're going to see it move.	在讲座的结尾，我们将看到她动起来
You can see all the wrinkles happening there.	你们可以看到各处皮肤褶皱的出现。
Now, where are we going with this here?	现在，我们接下来会做些什么？
And after I finished, I went to this area, the Ituri Forest.	毕业后我就来到了这，伊图里森林
And I said, "No way, I'm not doing it.	而我说，没门儿，我不会学它的
I want to be a doctor to serve them."	我想成为一名医生去给他们服务
I say, "Oh, no, I continue."	我说，噢，不，我要继续下去
So, I did tropical ecology and plant botany.	所以我学了热带生态学和栽培植物学
But I didn't like the way -- the instruction I got was very poor.	但是我不喜欢那种低质的教学方式
And I wanted to be formed to a training center and a research center.	我想到训练中心和研究中心去
And the work we have been doing was completely difficult to do and to achieve it.	而我们的工作完全无法完成
On their way, they looted everything.	他们一路上掠劫所有的东西
Every person was looking his way -- where to go, we don't know.	每一人都在找寻出路，我们不得而知
But I was from the west, working in the east.	但我是从西部来的，工作在东部
I even [at] that time was not speaking Swahili.	在那时候我甚至不会说斯瓦希里语
I stay. If I go, I will be killed.	我要留下。如果我走了会被杀掉
And this is a bright guy, hard-working person, and Pygmy.	这是一个聪明勤劳的人，皮革米
What's the regulation of the reserve and what is the regulation of the parks?	什么是储备规定什么是公园的规定？
We started talking with them and I was negotiating.	我们开始和他们对话，我在谈判
Sometimes, they talk to my own language, that is, Lingala.	有时他们说我的语言，林格拉语
I hear it and what strategy they are doing, what they are planning.	我听到他们的策略和他们的计划
And one day, we went for a meeting.	一天，我们去参加一个会议
They didn't -- they was not looking on me.	他们没有，他们没有看着我
This is not local population, this is rebels.	这不是当地居民，而是反叛者
Wildlife Conservation Society more dealing with plants.	野生动物保护协会做更多的种植工作
Now, it's doing work to train young Congolese.	现在它被用来训练年轻的刚果人
And that is -- I think it's difficult for me.	而那时-我认为对我来说是困难
I don't know where to start, where to finish it.	我不知道从哪开始，从哪结束
Now we say, oh, my God.	现在我们说，噢，我的上帝
But it's serving millions for the best.	但是它为千千万万人提供最好的服务
But what is doing with gun industries?	但是在军火行业发生了什么呢？
We're roughly two days from the entrance at that point.	在那里我们大约距出口两天路程。
Otherwise it is completely dark in these places.	否则，在这些地方全都是黑的。
It's basically like a tree collecting water coming down.	它基本上就像是一棵向下吸水的树。
So descend into Huautla Plateau in Mexico.	这是在墨西哥瓦乌拉特高原。
This is some life-support equipment closed-cycle.	这是某种闭合的维持生命的仪器
It's basically a nuclear-heated torpedo.	它基本上就是一个核能加热鱼雷。
This is all behavioral autonomy here that's being conducted by the robot on its own.	这全都由机器人自己执行。
DEPTHX is an all-seeing eyeball.	深水热源探测仪是一种全视角眼球。
There are three underpinnings of working in space privately.	私人探索太空工作有三大支柱。
One of them is the requirement for economical earth-to-space transport.	其一是经济的地球到太空的交通运输
Anybody drink one of these here this week?	有人这周喝过一杯这个吗？
There is a place where you can.	有个地方可以让你这样做。
We can go and use inflatable systems for almost everything.	我们几乎总是能够使用充气系统。
To bust the paradigm a radically different approach is needed.	打破固有模式需要一种全新的方法。
I intend to lead that expedition.	我志在领导这项太空远征。
There was once a time when people did bold things to open the frontier.	人们曾经勇敢地开启边疆之门。
We have collectively forgotten that lesson.	我们做为一个整体已忘记那一课。
Today, there are very few things that money can't buy.	现在极少东西是金钱买不到的
It's true. For how much, do you think?	没错！你们猜要花多少钱？
It's not the Ritz-Carlton. It's a jail!	监狱可不是丽思卡尔顿酒店
Over the past three decades, we have lived through a quiet revolution.	过去三十年我们经历了一场宁静革命
They've done some experiments in some major American cities.	在美国一些主要城市他们做过实验
And let's say it's a foundation. They will provide the funds.	假设是基金会的提议，他们出钱
First, how many think it might at least be worth a try to see if it would work? Raise your hand.	认为至少值得一试的人请举手
Let's start with those of you who object, who would rule it out even before trying.	从反方开始你们连试都不愿意试
What is, or should be, the intrinsic motivation?	内在的动力是什么？应该是什么？
And then, if you stop paying them, what happens then?	要是停止给钱，结果会怎样？
The two dollars for each book did lead those kids to read more books.	读一本书给两美元学童确实读更多书
But the real question is, what will become of these kids later?	但真正的问题是这些孩子将来会怎样
Now these are controversial questions, and so we tend to shrink from them.	这些问题都有争议所以我们较易退缩
And this is how we come to care for the common good.	这样我们才会关心共同利益
It's really a question of how we want to live together.	关键是我们要如何共同生活
That's how we traveled in the year 1900.	1900年，人们是这样出行的。
That's an open buggy. It doesn't have heating.	这是一个敞篷车，它没有供暖设备，
Some of the reasons for this are not really very controversial.	得出此结论的一部分原因无可置否。
They're demographics, education, debt and inequality.	人口，教育，债务以及不平等。
Now here's eight centuries of economic growth.	这是八世纪的经济增长图，
The white line is for the U.K., and then the U.S.	白色的线代表英国，然后美国
Now we're going to change and look at the level of per capita income.	现在我们转来看看人均收入水平。
The vertical axis now is thousands of dollars in today's prices.	纵轴代表以千为单位的美元，
The first headwind is demographics.	第一阵经济逆风就是人口。
They did it on a scrub board.	她们首先要在搓衣板上刷衣服，
Then they had to bring them in.	然后再把晒干的衣服带回家。
And by 1950, they were everywhere.	1950年，洗衣机在美国随处可见
What about the internal combustion engine, which was invented in 1879?	1879年，人类发明了内燃机。
What about the electronic revolution?	那么电子革命又是如何呢？
But I'm now going to give you an experiment.	但现在我要给大家展现一个实验，
Your challenge is, can you match what we achieved?	你们的发明能比得过我们的发明么？
And I've done it this way for half the audience, who is scientific.	这个图是为了听众中的科学家画的
And it wasn't bad, but it wasn't really creative.	似乎还不坏，但实在算不上什么创意
And they're the same ones that I have today.	一些我今日仍然在想的问题
And it's also one that, I think, many of our scientists have been asking.	我想这也是所有科学家所问的问题
And this happens constantly in the writing.	同样的事也时常发生在写作中。
There is also a big question of ambiguity.	再来还有模棱两可的问题。
And then, in a way, I knew that they had always been there.	同时我也知道，它们一直都在那里。
And it may also be explained that now you have a focus.	也可以解释成，心中有了焦点以后
You begin to look at things having to do with your tensions.	你开始检视那些令你紧张的事情
Why or why not?	为什么要，又为什么不要？
Also, I think one of the biggest things we are all looking at, and we talked about today, is genocide.	我想今日的一个重要议题是种族灭绝
It seems so obvious, and yet it is not.	这看起来似乎很明显，但一点也不
Sometimes I get help from the universe, it seems.	有时看上去似乎我受到宇宙的帮助
What are things that you get from the universe that you can't really explain?	那些从天而降的灵感又是什么？
These are the things I constantly think about from day to day.	这些就是我日复一日想着的事
And he said, "Well, I guess with everything in life, there's a place of balance."	他说，世间每件事都有一个平衡点
And this was exactly the meaning of my story at that point.	那便是我故事里所要讲的重点
And as I said, my mother did not believe in randomness.	如我所说我母亲从不相信偶然
60 homes were destroyed, and 40 were damaged.	六十户人家全毁，四十户遭到损坏
The man's sons were banished to live three kilometers away, in a cowshed.	老人的儿子被放逐到三公里外的牛棚
And so I was there on three occasions, different seasons.	所以我在不同的季节里去了三次
I have to become the story in order to understand a lot of that.	我必须成为故事的一部分才能理解
That what we are living in is a century of idea diffusion.	我们正生活在一个想法蔓延的年代。
You use the distribution you get to sell more products.	然后把更多的产品买给他们。
You take the profit from that to buy more ads.	最后赚了钱的你继续做更多的广告。
Now there are magazines about water.	现在居然出现了只谈论水的杂志。
I could do that again if you want it.	只要你愿意我可以重复一遍。
Because it's new, because it's fresh.	因为它是新出的，因为它是新鲜的。
It wasn't what they expected.	这不是法国人想象中的面包。
These are the people who are obsessed with something.	那些热衷于某些东西的人。
They only sell them on their website.	他们只在自己的网站上卖这些专辑
These are not diamonds, not really.	这不是钻石，不是真正的钻石。
Fastest-growing business in the whole mortuary industry.	于是墓葬行业变得十分火爆。
A couple of quick rules to wrap up.	这样的规则能快速总结出两三条。
Very good is boring. Very good is average.	很棒太无趣了。很棒太普通了。
Sales tripled. Why?	销售额就这样翻了三倍。为什么？
Because he did something that was at the fringes.	因为他做了一些稀奇古怪的事。
People with 20,000-dollar stereos don't like new music.	可他不喜欢这种新的音乐。
The last example I want to give you.	这是最后一个我想给你们举的例子。
This is a map of Soap Lake, Washington.	这是一副肥皂湖的地图，在华盛顿。
But they do have a lake.	但是他们确实是有这么一个湖
So I decided to look for a thousand different noes.	所以我决定在所有伊斯兰或者阿拉伯
So I'll be sharing some of these noes with you.	所以我会和你们分享其中的一些不。
Now, I want to leave you with a final no.	现在，我想用一个最后的不来结尾。
I used to be a Malthusian.	我曾经是马尔萨斯人口论的拥护者。
And after that, most likely it's going to begin to decline.	在那之后，人口数量将开始下降。
Scarce labor drives wages.	稀少的劳动力将带动工资的增长。
So why does this matter?	不过，这关我们什么事呢？
Because transitions are dangerous times.	因为过渡期往往是最危险的时刻。
Fear for the future leads to some rash decisions.	对未来的恐惧将会导致鲁莽的抉择。
And it received quite a bit of attention.	并且它获得了一定的关注。
These are the lions and tigers of the sea.	现在，它们是海洋中的狮子和老虎。
It's a very solitary creature.	它是一种完全独居的生物。
You know, we know almost nothing about them.	嗯，我们对它们几乎一无所知。
This is a very sort of un-shark-like photograph.	这甚至于有点不像是张鲨鱼的照片。
It's not what you typically might think of as a shark picture.	这不是那种通常意义上的鲨鱼照片。
One such story I did documented the leatherback sea turtle.	这是我记录棱皮龟的一篇报道。
You can see the coal burning plant in the background.	你能看到背景中的烧煤的电厂。
This is a picture that shows the tail of a right whale.	这张照片显示了一条露脊鯨的尾部。
And those white markings are not natural markings.	这些白色的标记不是天然的胎记，
These are entanglement scars.	这些是与渔具纠缠所造成的伤疤。
And the other problem is they get hit by ships.	另一个问题是，它们会被船舶击伤。
And that's because the urchins eat kelp.	那是因为海胆以大型海藻为食。
There's nothing left -- just a bit of grass there.	什么也不剩，只剩一丁点儿小草
People spent so much of their money on health issues and drinking water.	当地人在医疗与饮水上花费很多钱
And then you look at the outputs and you start measuring what comes out.	你观测结果，并且测量它。
Now in this recipe you also have the cost.	在这配方里你同时包含了成本。
You also know how much labor is needed.	你要知道需要付出多少劳动力。
But is it really that easy?	但是，它真的那么容易吗？
This is an area of about 50 million hectares.	这是一个面积约5千万公顷的林地。
So how to break that cycle?	因此，如何打破这种循环呢？
This is what it looked like for three months.	这是三个月看起来的样子。
So you have to do it with the local people.	所以，你必须与当地人民一起做。
You don't need to harvest [unclear] or any other of the crops.	您不必采集器官或任何其它的作物。
But also your legal side needs to be in very good order.	但此外，你也要有很好的法律知识
The nursery, in here, is quite different.	这里的培植区是相当不同的。
Air humidity is up 10 percent.	空气湿度增加了百分之十。
So you can actually change the climate.	所以是真的可以改变气候的。
There is no simple one recipe for one place.	各地各有不同，不存在单一配方。
This is the "Double Raindrop."	这个装置名为"两颗雨滴"
All the sculptures move by mechanical means.	所有的雕塑都由机械系统制动的
This adds together four different waves.	这个装置把四个波形组合到了一起
And here I'm going to pull out the double wavelengths and increase the single.	我把这双波减小一点把单波加大
A pair of helices and 40 wooden slats.	一对螺旋装置和四十块木板
And I'm just going to come out and say it: My daughter is not a wave.	我现在要告诉你们:我女儿就不是波
And does it ever change?	朱可恩:"它们会偏离你的初衷吗?
The relationship evolves over time.	朱可恩:"的确,事态毕竟都会发展
And it's an example of living and working together.	这就是一个工作与生活在一起的样本
And that's the evolution of the system.	这张图是库里蒂巴交通系统的发展
And after, the children teach their parents.	这之后，孩子们会教他们的家长
And these are the references that we have in any city.	所有城市都可以这样比做一张照片
And these are the references from our ethnic contribution.	这些是参照不同民族建设的
If you cut two zeros, it's much better.	如果少了两个零，创意会更多
And I think creativity, innovation is starting.	我认为创造性和革新是开端
And I referenced that at the end of my last talk.	在我的演讲的最后，引用了他的话，
I think there are many possible explanations for it.	我认为对此可能有许多解释。
You have to create the circumstances where they show themselves.	你不得不创造它们自我展现的环境。
This has to be transformed into something else.	它一定要被转换成其它的形式。
We don't teach American history in Britain.	我们在英国不教美国历史。
Not rise to it, rise with it.	不是为它进步，而是与时俱进。
Ask a room full of teenagers the same thing.	同样问题问一屋子十几岁的年轻人。
And probably the pinnacle for education is getting you to college.	可能是教育的顶峰是被大学录取。
The other big issue is conformity.	另一个很大的问题是循规蹈矩。
One is that human talent is tremendously diverse.	其一是人类天赋有巨大的多样性。
It's about passion, and what excites our spirit and our energy.	是热情，使我们精力和能量兴奋。
So I think we have to change metaphors.	因此，我认为我们不得不改变暗喻。
And you cannot predict the outcome of human development.	而且你不能预计人类发展的结果；
So it turns out that mathematics is a very powerful language.	数学是一门很有用的语言。
I want to show you a couple of examples why.	我想向大家展示几个反例。
That's a powerful historical force.	这是一股非常强大的历史作用力。
So what kind of historical mechanism can produce that?	那么这背后的历史原因是什么呢？
has been with me ever since I was a child.	自从我还是孩子时就伴随着我。
And I said, "Kids are getting killed there.	我说"他们在杀害那些孩子。
And she got it, she said, "Okay, I see it's serious.	她懂了，说，"我知道这很严重。
I wanted to understand how violence, how oppression, works.	我想知道暴力，压迫有什么作用。
And only very rarely in very few cases does it work to use more violence.	并且用更多的暴力几乎不起作用。
They realized that using force against force doesn't work.	他们发现以暴制暴不管用。
And the first is that the change that has to take place has to take place here, inside me.	第一个是该发生的改变必须发生。
My fear grows fat on the energy I feed it.	我越害怕，我的恐惧越大。
And you talk to the fear and you ask it what it wants, what it needs.	你和恐惧说话你问他他要什么
How can the child feel stronger?	这个孩子如何变得更强壮？
And you say, "Okay, now we're going back to sleep.	你说"好吧，我们要睡觉了。
So that's fear. What about anger?	所以这就是恐惧。那愤怒呢？
But anger as an engine -- in an engine -- is powerful.	但作为引擎，愤怒是很有力的。
And that's the basis on which we have to talk with them.	而这就是我们和他们交流的基础。
So that's the third one, anger.	所以这就是第三个，愤怒。
It was still governments telling people what to do.	过去政府仍然告诉人们该做什么。
It's bottom-up or grassroots power.	现在是由下而上或者说草根权利。
It's like mushrooms coming through concrete.	想从混凝土中长出的蘑菇。
So Peace Direct gets behind them to do that.	所以和平指导为他们提供支持。
And they have to risk their lives almost every day to do this.	他们为这些事必须要冒生命风险。
And I think there are signs that it is beginning to change.	我认为现在已经有改变的迹象了。
The British military have always been much better at this.	英国部队已经做得很好了。
And after about two minutes, everybody moved aside and went home.	两分钟过后，人群散开并回家。
And it's happening everywhere now.	现在在每个地方都会发生。
Because finally human beings are getting it.	因为人们最后正在达到它。
Now I don't just believe in non-violence.	现在我不仅仅相信非暴力。
It's just, it's just, I just would like us all to go there.	我只想带着你们一起体会那种感觉
It is objectless. There are no things in it.	这里空无一物，其中什么也没有
So, imagine we're in the middle of America.	所以，想象我们在美洲中部。
I was young. I'd just finished art school.	我那时还年轻，刚从艺术学校毕业。
Anyway, bear with me.	不管怎么说，再忍受我一下。
So here is a daily activity of the studio.	所以这里有一个工作室的日常活动。
There's a hole at the anus, penis level.	在肛门和生殖器的位置有个洞。
There are holes at ears. There are no holes at the eyes.	耳朵上有洞。眼睛上没有洞。
If you look down, you can't see your feet.	如果你向下看，你看不见你的脚。
It's about reasserting our firsthand experience in present time.	它是确立我们的第一手经验在此时。
So the equation is conceptual.	或者说，这个公式是理念性的
Still it works to help us understand the problem.	不过它仍然可以帮我们理解问题。
We call this Mission Zero.	我们把这一目标叫作"零使命"
Here is the business case for sustainability.	这就是可持续发展的商业道白
And the goodwill of the marketplace is astonishing.	而市场的反响也是令人惊讶的
It is a better business model.	我认为这是更优的商业模式
And here is our 14-year record of sales and profits.	这是我们14年来的销售以及利润图
But the marketplace was down 36 percent.	但同期的市场容量则下降了36%
If we can actually do it, it must be possible.	假如我们真的可以做，那就是可能的
The maps they gave us are out of date by years."	呈现给我们的地图也已过时多年。"
We want to play you one more selection.	我们想再为各位演奏一曲。
And I rebuild them and give them new life.	我改造他们，给他们新的生活。
Built in a tough neighborhood where people have been given up for dead.	建在一个贫困潦倒的粗鲁的街区。
They did all right in the ketchup business.	他们在番茄酱领域做得不错。
And John Heinz did give me a million bucks.	然后约翰亨氏就真的给了我一百万。
That's puff pastry day. Why?	这是松饼日。为什么这样呢？
We train corporate travel agents for the travel industry.	我们为旅游业培训旅游专员。
And these are children who are flunking out of public school.	这些孩子都快被公立学校退学了。
Let me show you what these people do.	让我来告诉你这些人是怎么做的。
And it's worked out pretty good up to this day.	这条法则至今都很有有效。
That's the place all filled up with Republicans.	这张照片是坐满了共和党人的音乐厅
And I think we're going to be fine.	我想我们的成绩会更好的。
And this is what I want to do when I grow up.	这张照片是长大以后，我想要做的事
I want one of those."	我也想要这样的一座中心。"
And she turned that audience around on a pin.	她影响了当时所有的观众。
Let's do one in L.A."	我们在洛杉矶也建一个吧。"
It's the development of a prosthetic device for treating blindness.	是一个用于治疗失明的假体装置
What's the potential impact on a patient's ability to see?	它对病人的视力有多大潜在影响？
So let me show you, and I'm going to start with the standard method first.	首先我来说明普通假体的实验结果
This is just actually the first one that we tried.	这是仅仅是我们尝试的头一个
I just wanted to say something about the standard method.	我想说一些关于普通假体的问题
We're not doing anything to the cells here.	我们没有对这些细胞做任何处理。
When it's alone it doesn't make any light.	当它独处时,丝毫不会发光。
This is like the stealth bomber of the ocean.	就像是大海中的隐形轰炸机一般。
This is the Vibrio fischeri molecule.	这个是费氏弧菌的小分子。
This is the word that it talks with.	也就是它们用以交谈的文字。
So these are private, secret conversations.	所以这些交谈是私下的、秘密的。
It's a very small, five-carbon molecule.	它是一个非常小的五碳分子。
The first one is we've targeted the intraspecies communication system.	第一个，我们锁定菌种内通讯系统。
Science is done by that demographic.	科学是由这种年龄层的人所造就的。
So, are you ready for the lecture?	我要开始演讲了，准备好了？
Take the example of flutes.	举个例子来说，假设我们要分配笛子
Let's see what people -- What would you say?	你们怎么说？你们怎么说？
How many say the best flute players?	有多少人觉得应该给最好的笛子手？
Actually, that was Aristotle's answer too.	实际上，这也是亚里士多德的回答
All right.	好的，这是一个很好的理由
Well, it's a good reason.	好的，这是一个很好的理由
In fact, it carried risk of injury.	不仅如此，他还很容易因此受伤
How would you answer the objection?	你们的反驳他们的理由是什么？
Charlie: The cart's not part of the game.	"球车不是比赛的一部分"
Walking the course is not part of the game of golf?	在球场上走动不算是比赛的一部分？
All right. Stay there, Charlie.	好的，这可是你说的，查莉
Charlie, what do you say to Warren?	查莉，你对沃伦有什么话说？
Yes. They agreed with Warren.	是的，他们同意沃伦的看法
It's also objectionable on a second ground.	另外一方面是另外一方面是
And how many favor the second, same-sex marriage?	有多少人支持后者，同性婚姻？
What's your vision for the next phase of this?	请问您对下一阶段的预期是什么？
I'm going to do that in two steps.	这第五点，我会用两个步骤来谈论。
It's a global trance.	这[它]是一个全球性恍惚。
That's my answer to the overpopulation question.	这是我对人口过多的问题的回应。
So that's all I'm going to say about that.	关于这个话题我就说到这里。
A very simple definition.	这是一个非常简单的定义。
They're what I'm calling here the "gerontology approach" and the "geriatrics approach."	这两种方法就是老年学和老年医学。
I'm going to call that "robust human rejuvenation." OK.	我称这为'强健人类再生'。好。
And the reason it's the wrong answer is because of progress.	而错误的原因是因为进步。
The incremental advances have added up to something which is not incremental anymore.	比起原先每次都递进增值有进展。
And you see it in all sorts of technologies.	而且在很多科技上都是这样。
This is a very important point for me to get across.	这是我想说的非常重要的一点。
And that's quite a thought.	很令人值得想一想的结论吧。
I say we absolutely are irresponsible if we stay silent on this.	保持沉默，绝对是不负责任的。
So they'll probably think it's five years away.	因此，他们很可能会认为只需五年。
And this turns out to be useful.	这一点对我们来说是有益的。
The list on the right is also incomplete.	右边的列表也一样不完整。
They're categories of things, of course, but there's only seven of them.	当然，这七个是类别，但只有七个。
One can say, "OK, what are we made of?"	可以说，好，我们是什么做的？
We're made of cells and stuff between cells.	我们是由细胞和细胞间的东西。
What can damage accumulate in?	"损害"可以累积在那里？
There's a proposal to actually put together an institute.	还有一个计划建议组织一个机构，
Raised quite a few eyebrows in Iceland.	这在冰岛引起了不小的轰动。
Like TED, I believe in people.	像TED一样，我相信人的力量。
Women in Iceland took the day off.	冰岛的女性在这一天全体罢工。
We need to start embracing the beauty of balance.	我们应当开始追求平衡之美。
You know, we say, half the world is living in cities.	全世界有一半人在城市中生活
They call these neighborhoods "obesageneric."	他们叫这种社区"肥胖社区"
And we take car crashes for granted.	我们认为车祸是不可避免的
We figure it's a natural risk of being on the road.	把它当做开车在路上的天然风险
Well, guess what? In England, it's seven per 100,000.	可是在英格兰，十万人中只有7人
San Francisco, the same thing. Portland, the same thing.	旧金山，一样，波特兰，也一样
But of course, we can do better.	但是当然，我们可以做的更好
European cities consume half as much again.	欧洲城市消耗的是这一半的一半
And we don't want to have this argument.	但我们并不想宣传这样的论点
There's six more. Short talk.	还有其他六个，但来不及说了
And you see this alignment, this strange alignment.	你看看这些排序，这些奇怪的排序
That's what I'd like to try and do.	这也就是我想试着做的事。
And inflation has come down.	同时，通货膨胀正趋于缓和。
And in many other countries this is happening.	这种现象在其他国家也同样存在
There is no way you can know what people want.	这样的话我们无法知道人民的需要
I want to leave this up here and come back to it.	我想先到此为止，待会再回来讲
But before I get to this slide, I just wanted to run you through this.	但在讲这个之前，我只想让你们明白
We were having negative per capita growth.	我们的人均国民收入还是负增长
So now we have this platform we can build on.	如今我们可以在这个平台上建设
How do we combine all this?	我们怎样把这些因素整合起来
How are we using it?	我们正怎样地使用这些资源
People, children were dying of kwashiorkor.	人们，孩子因为营养不良而死去
In the midst of all this, my mother fell ill with a stomach ailment for two or three days.	在那期间，我母亲食物中毒了两三天
I got there and I saw huge crowds.	当我到了那里，看到一群人围着
Almost a thousand people were there, trying to break down the door.	差不多有一千人，都在挤进门
In about two to three hours, she started to move.	大概两三个小时后，妹妹开始动了
And about five or six hours later, she said we could go home.	大概五六个小时后，她说可以回家了
These are people who are productive agents in the economy.	这些人在经济上是生产力的代表
Today, the European Union is busy transferring aid.	现在，欧盟内部积极开展援助工作
But I worry because this money is so important.	但我焦虑是因为这点钱非常重要
Have we done that? The answer is no.	我们有没有这样做呢？答案是不
And each one is making their own individual effort.	每个人都在做着他们自己的努力
As a continent, here are our priorities.	作为一个大陆，这是我们最需要的。
Here is where we want you to channel this money."	这里需要你们投入金钱。"
They said this is about proliferating and sharing ideas.	他们说这有关于推广和分离想法
Invest some of your resources in that, too."	也把你们的资源投到那里去吧
Aid cannot solve our problems, I'm firmly convinced about that.	我坚信援助不能解决我们的问题
It's because there's a little more leverage in terms of the Chinese.	这是因为中国人更懂得经济杠杆
And I repeat it for the continent.	然后我觉得整个非洲都该这样
OK, so let me not forget my punchline.	好的，那让我说完我的结束语
But there are people -- women -- creating jobs.	但有些妇女的确在创造就业
It's really a remarkable, awesome thing that happens there.	这真是很神奇，精彩的即兴音乐。
There's not too many brain-dead people creating art.	很少有不动脑子的人创作艺术。
And I think there's some sub-questions there that I put there.	我想我提出了一些潜在的问题。
And I think that's a good question.	我觉得这是一个很好的问题。
And fundamentally that's what I do in my lab.	这也是基本上我在实验室做的事情。
We actually have to come up with a scientific experiment.	我们得想出真正的科学实验。
And then there's the bottom one, which is called the jazz paradigm.	底下的这个，叫做爵士范例。
And then we looked at the brain activity.	然后我们查看了大脑的活动。
I'm going to try to condense this for you.	我来把这个给你们压缩在一起。
Really, consciousness is seated in the frontal lobe.	人的意识其实是处于大脑前叶。
And so now we're playing back and forth.	现在我们开始互相交互弹奏。
And then I'm in the control room here, playing back and forth.	而我在控制室，我们弹来弹去。
And it's good that it's not too quick.	而且曲子不是太快，这很好。
So what am I showing you here?	所以我在这里给你看的是什么呢？
Rap, of course, rap -- free-style.	说唱，当然，说唱自由式说唱。
And let's go ahead and play this video here.	让我们在这里放一段录像。
So how do you study rap scientifically?	所以我们该怎样科学地研究说唱呢？
And then I thought -- But here's the thing.	然后我想--这说唱词就在
Go ahead and hit that right sound icon.	请按一下右边那个声音图标。
Well, this is actually four rappers' brains.	这其实是四个说唱家的大脑记录。
And at top of that pyramid, it's calculus.	金字塔的顶端，是微积分。
It's one of the great products of the human mind.	它是人类思维的其中一个伟大产物。
The laws of nature are written in the language of calculus.	自然法则就是建立在微积分上。
It's risk. It's reward. It's randomness.	它是风险。它是奖励。它没有规律。
Not only -- thank you -- not only that ...	不只是－谢谢－不只是那些……
Now this is quite time consuming and isn't the most comfortable process.	这十分耗时而且过程也不舒适。
And on top of that, these systems actually cost in the tens of thousands of dollars.	加上，这个系统要花费上百万美元。
It only takes a few minutes to put on and for the signals to settle.	只需要几分钟来固定好和稳定信号。
And of course, also to the lighting -- turning them on or off.	当然还有照明－－开灯或者关灯。
We've got a different solution.	我们想了另外一个解决办法
And we thought, well, that's not really good enough.	那么我们想，这样，也许并不够好。
Now, this is our second generations prototype.	现在这个是我们的二代产品
Malaria is one of the great public health problems.	疟疾是重大的公共健康问题之一。
So what can we do about it?	那么我们可以对此做些什么呢？
They don't always get to everyone.	而且不是所有人都能有蚊帐。
Now, malaria is an incredibly complicated disease.	所以说，疟疾是一种极其复杂的疾病
One of those ways might be better diagnosis.	其中一个可能会是迅速诊断仪。
There's a lot of cool stuff we can do with it.	我们可以用它做很多很酷的事情。
This is our femtosecond laser lab.	这是我们的飞秒级激光实验室。
That's really, really, really short.	那是非常非常非常短的时间。
This is our thousand-core supercomputer.	这是我们的千核超级电脑。
Okay, we heard about bed nets earlier.	是的，我们之前谈到了蚊帐。
So that sets the stage on which you do this.	这样就设定好做这一步的程序。
Ultimately, it gives you this.	最后，电脑程序会给出这样的结果。
This is malaria spreading across Madagascar.	这是在马达加斯加散播的疟疾。
We're going to the dry season now.	我们现在看一下旱季的情况。
We also try to study our foe.	我们也尝试研究我们的"敌人"
This is a high-speed camera view of a mosquito.	这是高速摄像机下的蚊子。
And, in a moment, we're going to see a view of the airflow.	很快我们就会看到空气的流动。
What can we do to the mosquito?	我们可以对蚊子做些什么呢？
What if we could do that?	我们能做到的话会怎样呢？
Clinics are full of people that have malaria.	诊所里充满了患疟疾的病人。
So, this sounds really crazy, right?	怎样，这听起来很疯狂，是吗？
Next we can actually light them up with a laser.	然后我们其实可以用激光照亮它们
Here we have it running at high-speed mode.	这是用高速模式播放的效果。
I want to take something rather humble to discuss.	我想要来谈谈一些较为简朴的作法。
It's then sold and bought, and it's then delivered to me.	然后经过买卖，送到了我的手上，
This is the restaurant, Acorn House.	就是个餐厅，这间叫做「橡实屋」，
The whole business is run on sustainable energy.	整间餐厅都是使用可再生能源，
And I was thinking, well I'm trying to think nature, nature, nature.	我一直在想着要用自然的东西，
Right, here's a reconditioned coffee machine.	这是一台重新调整过的咖啡机，
Now reusing is vital.	重新回收利用资源是很重要的，
And we filter our own water.	我们还过滤自己要喝的水，
Here's a great little example.	这里还有一个很棒的小例子，
It serves 220 people a day.	但一天却可以供应220人用餐。
We generate quite a lot of waste.	我们每天会制造出许多废物，
You can't get rid of waste.	人们不可能不制造废弃物，
What you're seeing here is a water filtration system.	你现在看到的是滤水系统，
But this is an electrical restaurant.	但这间餐厅是间电气餐厅，
The whole thing is electric, the restaurant and the kitchen.	全部只使用电，包含餐厅和厨房，
This is basically air-handling.	所以只简单使用这种排风系统，
I've got metal and earth to come.	还有以金和土为主题的餐厅。
Okay. So this is my next project.	好，这是我的下一个计画，
The People's Supermarket.	我要开一间「平民超市」。
I mean, the whole thing is is super-sustainable.	这整个计画简直是超极环保的，
Environmentally conscious businesses are doable.	有环保意识的商业是可行的，
And I hope you all take part.	我希望各位都能参与其中。
Some battle oppressive governments.	有的人反抗压迫他们的政府
Let me take you back two years ago in my life.	跟随我回到两年前我的生活里
It was the bedtime of my son, Aboody.	那是在我儿子阿布迪快要睡觉的时候
"Why do you say such things, Aboody?"	"阿布迪，你为什么要说这些呢？"
They were just influenced by the adults around them.	他们其实是被周围的成人带坏的
But my story goes beyond this moment of truth of mine.	但我的故事并没有就此结束
There wasn't an actual law in Saudi Arabia.	在沙特阿拉伯并没有这么一条法律
We are minors until the day we die.	我们妇女直到死亡都是弱者
Just to tell you, two stories happened in the last two years.	就说说这两年发生的事情吧
One of them is when I was in jail.	其中一个发生于我在监狱里
So it's these two totally different perceptions of my personality.	这对我来说是两种完全不同的观点
20 percent of the Council.	她们占了协商议院百分之20的席位
And I don't know how I became one now.	也不清楚我如何就成为我现在的样子
They're not even enjoying the show.	他们可能根本不喜欢这个音乐会。
They're watching the concert through their cell phone.	他们在手机上观看音乐会。
I was on a three-month road trip this summer.	今年夏天我度了三个月的假。
It really helps you appreciate the good times.	它会让你更加珍惜那些好时光。
I started a rule of first person perspective.	我一开始就用第一人称视角拍摄。
I turned 31 last week, which is there.	视频里是上周我刚满31岁的样子。
I think everyone would have a different interpretation of it.	我相信每个人都会有自己的解读。
And now it goes from -- yes, now it goes from left to right.	而现在是，哦是的从左到右
This is a new generation, a new family, which is able to store the winds.	这是新的物种能够储藏风能的物种
I could show you this animal.	我可以向大家展示一下这只怪兽
It works the same as a wheel.	它与普通车轮运行机理相同
Can I have the feeler here?	可以帮我把感知器拿过来吗
So imagine that the animal is walking towards the sea.	所以想象当动物向大海行走时
One of the biggest enemies are the storms.	另一个生存的最大敌人是暴风雨
I still have to help them a lot.	现在它们仍然需要我多方面的帮助
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.	非常感谢，女士们，先生们
But we'll talk more about the watermarks in a minute.	一会儿我们将更多地讨论水印。
So accuracy is essential.	这样的精确度是非常有意义的
It's a James Joyce quote.	这是JamesJoyce所说的
We need some alternatives for oil.	我们需要一些东西来代替石油
Those are just a couple of the approaches and directions that we're taking.	这只是我们考虑到的一些方面和途径
But all is not lost in translation.	但不是所有都会在翻译中被丢失。
Only God knows the true meaning.	只有上帝才知道真正的意义。"
And that number 72 never appears.	还有，72这个数字从未出现过。
No ant directs the behavior of any other ant.	没有蚂蚁指挥其他蚂蚁的行为。
And I try to figure out how that works.	所以我试图了解蚁群运作的原理。
And by doing this I know how old they all are.	这样做我就知道它们各自的年龄。
So I want to tell you about the life cycle of a colony.	我想告诉你们蚁群的生命周期。
So the queen goes down in there.	蚁后就这样在洞穴深处生存着，
So this is the colony founded by a queen the previous summer.	这是一只蚁后在去年夏天建的蚁群。
So, things happen to an ant colony.	比如，蚁群总是会遇上变故的，
So that's what the midden workers do.	这就是负责垃圾的蚂蚁的工作。
And these four groups are just the ants outside the nest.	这四类只是在蚁穴外工作的蚂蚁
So there's this whole network of chambers.	这是所有小房间的网状图。
There's the larvae, and they consume most of the food.	那是幼蚁，他们吃掉了大多数食物，
They bring it back and feed it to the larvae.	它们把食物带回来给幼蚁吃。
So here's some blue nest maintenance workers.	这是一些蓝色的负责维修的蚂蚁，
The nest maintenance workers become foragers.	负责维修的蚂蚁也成了觅食的蚂蚁。
And the amazing thing about this is that an ant lives only a year.	更令人惊奇的是，蚂蚁只活一年。
It could be this year, or this year.	可能是这一年或是那一年。
And I'll tell you a little bit more about that.	我想稍微详细地再讲解一下。
They cover the earth, except for Antarctica.	除了南极洲，它们到处都有。
And I don't know what the solution is.	我不知道该解决方案是什么。
We need to speak up and shatter the silence.	我们需要说出来打破沉默。
You're wrong, because it's the opposite.	你错了，因为它是相反的。
We're people, and we have problems.	我们是人，我们会有问题。
We're not perfect, and that's okay.	我们不是完美的，而这没什么。
So, let me start projecting forward.	好，接下来我就把我的设想告诉大家
So, what you see in the background is a prototype.	你看到后面那个是一个原型来的
And that's when we got the Internet.	这也是我们发明互联网的方法
They had no conventional technical background.	他们基本没有传统的技术背景
So, Einstein would like this.	爱因斯坦也会爱上这玩意的
This isn't technology for communication; it's technology to prevent it.	这不是旨在促进交流的科技而是相反
And finally, the lab started doing invention.	最后，实验室也开始搞发明
But my subject is national security.	但我要谈论的议题是国家安全
You're probably thinking that was my birth year.	各位可能觉得是我出生的那年
It's what we're going to use in the future.	是将来我们又要用什么燃料
And the cost annually is three trillion dollars.	而且年消耗足足有三万亿美金
Somehow that doesn't seem right.	然而这却不一定正确的做法
Over that period you are going to double your demand.	在这期间石油的需要量将会加倍
But the days of cheap oil are over.	廉价石油的日子已经结束了
And the OPEC nations are the ones that price the oil.	是石油输出国家组织给石油定价
So where are we headed from here?	那么当下我们应该怎么做呢?
Run it through the separator and you're ready to use it.	通过分离器后就可以使用了
But here you can look at the list.	不过现在你们可以看看这个列表
Natural gas will fit all of those.	天然气符合这里所有的条件
Do we have enough natural gas?	那么我们有足够的天然气吗
How does that translate to barrels of oil equivalent?	这可以换算成多少桶原油呢?
And where I've targeted is on the heavy-duty trucks.	而且我的目标是耐重型的卡车
There are 250 million vehicles in America.	美国有二亿五千万辆小汽车
And yet, we have no energy plan.	而且我们没有任何能源计划
That'll make you abandon something.	这就使得我们必须要抛弃某些东西
We are overwhelmed with natural gas.	天然气多到让我们欣喜若狂
TBP: Well you say a big investor.	TBP:你说对了，是个大的投资者
I'm not a big natural gas producer.	但我并不是一个大的天然气厂商
But no, I'm not. I own stocks.	但我并不是我只是持有股权
TBP: Well you're going to have to use something.	TBP:但是你必须要燃烧某些东西
And I said, "Bridge to what?	我接着问我们未来的燃料是什么
But I don't think that's right, Boone.	Boone但是我不认为这是对的
I think you're a person who believes in your legacy.	我认为你是个为后代树立典范的人
You're one of the few people in a position to really swing the debate.	你是极少数能够影响走向的有力人士
I can tell you it will be a failure.	我可以告诉你这必定以失败告终
They just aren't, it's a bad deal.	它们就是无法办到那是个坏主意
One, don't build a reformer on a fault.	首先，不要在断层带上建造重组器
And number two, do not build a reformer on the ocean.	其次不要在海洋中建造重组器
You're going to have to have energy. There is no question.	我们必须要有能源，这毋庸置疑
The first frack job was in '47.	第一件水利压裂工程是在1947年
That is, it's going to be a small part, because you can't rely on it.	那实在太小了因为那根本不可靠
You'll keep using it. It is the cleanest of all.	会一直使用它是最清洁的能源
And I say, that is your problem.	我的回答是那是你们应该解决的问题
Yeah, sure, I'm game for it.	所以当然了我还是会投资的
And anything American will work for me.	只要是任何出自美国的东西我都认同
So it's very easy, comparatively speaking, to be resilient.	相对而言，技术很容易适应
You keep going, and both things are lots of hype.	接着想，二者都伴有大量夸张的宣传
Some have 5,000. Many have more.	有的人有五千，其他人拥有的更多
So many people left what they were doing.	很人就抛下自己的工作不做了
And what would happen is -- and the Gold Rush went on for years.	后来淘金热就这样持续了好多年
They had bad burn rate in the Gold Rush. A very bad burn rate.	淘金热的消耗非常严重，非常严重。
They loaded up their mules and their horses.	人们把他们的骡子和马装好
It got renamed the "Dead Horse Trail."	那条路后来被称为"亡马之路"
And that was, of course, the very common story.	当然，这只是一个很普通的故事
There's a bunch of things that are interesting about electricity.	关于电力，有一大堆的趣事
So the light bulb is what wired the world.	把世界用电线连接起来的就是电灯泡
All the streets had to be torn up.	所有的街道被重新休整了一番
But that is not the -- and that's not the part that's really most similar to the Web.	但，这还不是和网络最相似的地方
People, I guess, decided that they would not wrinkle their ties.	我猜，人们都不会把他们的领带弄皱
This came in, like, six different colors.	它看起来有六种不同的颜色
They hadn't invented the electric socket yet.	那个时候人们尚未发明电插座
And you'd plug it in there.	这样你就可以把灯泡插在上面了
Everybody wanted one of these electric washing machines.	每个人都想得到一台电动洗衣机
On the left-hand side, this was the soapy water.	左边的那个桶装的是肥皂水
This is a total kludge, if you ask me.	这绝对是一台杂牌组装电脑
I challenge you to try. It's very hard.	我觉得大家应该尝试一下，非常难
Try to get DSL installed in your house.	把数字用户线路装在你的家中
The engineers who do it everyday can't do it.	每天做这件事情的工程师都做不了
This was the advertisement that they ran in 1917.	这是一个在1917年播出的广告
At the same time, I think religions don't deserve all the credit.	同时，我想宗教并不是万能的。
There's a lot of work to be done after that.	之后还有很多工作要做。好。
It happened through a principle known as kin selection.	它是通过亲缘选择的原则出现的。
I'll get there -- I hope to get a little fuzzier.	我继续。我希望说得有一点模糊。
Biologists call that "reciprocal altruism." OK.	生物学家称那是互利主义。好的。
And it's good to treat other people well.	而且对别人好是一件好事。
That's close to being a kind of built-in intuition.	那差不多是在直觉中被建立的。
It's this non-zero-sumness stuff you just heard a little bit about.	它是你们刚听到一点的总和非零。
So, their fortunes add up to zero.	所以，他们的情况加起来是零。
It's going to either be win-win or lose-lose for them.	那对于他们将是双赢或者双输。
With zero-sum channels you would expect something else.	零和的渠道，你只能期待别的了。
That's the story of civilization.	那也差不多使人类文明的故事。
Good things happen, and it's good for much of the world.	好事发生了，这对世界都好。
And the world is full of non-zero-sum dynamics.	而且世界上充满了非零和的动态。
So, there's plenty of non-zero-sumness.	所以，有很多非零和的存在。
And I think it's good moral exercise.	并且我认为这是好的道德练习。
And it's going to take real work to change that.	需要我们付出努力来改变这种现状。
Now, she had no idea what to look for.	她完全不知道应当寻找什么
Had the children eaten boiled sweets?	这些孩子有没有吃煮沸的甜食?
Did they eat fish and chips?	他们是不是吃油炸鱼和薯片了?
Now that finding flew in the face of conventional wisdom.	这个发现对于传统观念是一大冲击
So, how did she know that she was right?	所以说,她怎么知道她当时是对的?
So what does that kind of constructive conflict require?	那么这种建设性的矛盾要求什么呢?
So it's one thing to do that in a one-to-one relationship.	因此这在一对一的关系中是一个方面
So how do organizations think?	那么这些组织是怎么想的呢?
Well, for the most part, they don't.	其实大多数情况下,他们是不思考的
Because it does take skill and practice, too.	因为这的确需要一些技巧和练习
And Joe was very worried about the device that he was working on.	他很担心他正在工作的这台医疗设备
He was afraid of doing damage to the patients he was trying to help.	他很害怕去伤害那些他想帮助的人们
So, he didn't really want to say anything.	因此,他不想把自己的想法说出来
It turned out everybody had exactly the same questions and doubts.	所有人其实都有着同样的问题和怀疑
Open information is fantastic, open networks are essential.	公开信息是很棒的公开的网络很关键
They've been looted inside and out.	盗墓者里里外外把坟墓淘空了
How about underground with a view?	在地表上装一个观测的窗口？
So the obvious answer was, we need a mountain.	答案很明显，我们需要找到一座山
We looked at mesas in New Mexico.	我们看了新墨西哥州的山谷地
It's right on the eastern border of Nevada.	就在内华达州东部的边界上
Now, inside the yellow line here, on the right is -- that's all national park.	在这黄线里面，右边是国家公园
And then over to the left is Bureau of Land Management land and some private land.	左边是国土管理局以及其他私人领地
It's what he calls the seven stages of a mythic adventure.	他说，这一过程包括七个环节
And in fact, pretty soon we'll hear the sound.	我们马上就能听到这声音了
The goal. The main thing that you're trying to get to.	你到了终点了，到了你想去的地方
This is not a normal building project.	这不是一个平常的建筑项目
What are the elements that will most affect your ideas and decisions?	什么是最能影响你的思想与决定的？
You may recognize a couple of the miners there.	你也许认识开矿的几位探险者
And they also found four species of bats in there.	他们在那还发现了四个种类的蝙蝠
Let's go to weather. Mountains specialize in interesting weather.	再看看天气吧。山间的天气都很特别
Woke up in the morning -- the mountain was covered with snow.	早上醒来，山顶上盖满了积雪
Another possible approach is right up the western front of the mountain.	另一种可能是从山的西边上去
You can see why we sometimes call it Long Mountain.	你也可以理解为何我们称之为长山脉
How about Zander's Crevice? No.	是不是叫桑德缝隙呢？不好
Their herd was reintroduced from Wyoming.	这些是从怀俄明州重新引进过来的
And most of these ranches are having trouble keeping going.	很多农场存在着维持下去的难题
OK, let's take one more look at the mountain itself.	好吧，我们再看看这大山一眼吧
Now, at the base of the high cliffs there's this natural cave.	在悬崖的底部，有一个天然的洞穴
And this stone takes a perfect polish.	这块石头则显然被很多人踩过
So that's what the mountain taught us.	这就是大山带给我们的智慧
Well, I'm afraid I used to be the cat.	好吧，恐怕我曾经是那只猫。
So, why doesn't it do it?	那么，为什么这一切没有发生呢？
So, have a guess of how many cells he has in his body.	猜猜看他的体内有多少的细胞？
Do you even know how a trillion looks?	你知道一万亿是怎么样的么？
Rous discovered this in 1911.	Rous在1911年发现了这个。
Now, let's take a normal example.	现在，我们举个正常例子，
In different contexts, cells do different things.	在不同的环境下，细胞做不同的事。
But how does context signal?	但是环境是怎样影响的呢？
And of course, we now ask, where do we go now?	当然，我们要问，下一步做什么？
We'd like to take this kind of thinking into the clinic.	我们希望将这个想法用于临床治疗。
You need to always think, what else needs to be discovered?	你需要不断想，还有什么没被发现？
What do they do in the beginning when they do?	它们在一开始的时候再做什么？
The minute he stops, we have neither.	舞随乐停，心犹醉不可醒。
Now, I'd like to show you a current picture of my group.	这是我们组现有成员的合照。
And I'd like to leave you with this thought.	并且，我想留给大家思考一个问题。
And I'm not even talking about the American presidential race.	我甚至不是在谈论美国的总统竞选。
Now, of course, not all deception hits the news.	当然，不是所有的骗局都会上新闻。
No, that looked good, it was about two thirds of you.	不错，大约有三分之二的人。
Here we have Diogenes with his lantern.	有个典故，第欧根尼和他的灯笼。
Yeah. I was defending Canada's borders.	是的，我那时在捍卫加拿大边境。
You just didn't want to respond to that person that time.	你只是那时不想回复那个人罢了。
Now this Sock Puppet stuff isn't actually that new.	马甲模式其实不是最新的，
I can assure you there's deception there.	我保证这里面一定有人撒谎。
The phone, in contrast, the most lies.	相比之下，电话里有最多的谎言。
This tends to be very different from what people expect.	这真的和人们的预期很不一样。
I mean, that's a pretty deceptive space.	这里面有很大的欺骗空间。
And what we found was very, very interesting.	我们发现了非常非常有趣的事。
Along the bottom is how tall they said they were in their profile.	水平轴是他们在介绍里宣称的高度，
Along the y-axis, the vertical axis, is how tall they actually were.	Y轴，垂直轴，是他们真实的高度
That really is strange. How do we explain this?	这真的和奇怪。我们该如何解释呢？
That's really bad. Why is it so bad?	真的是很糟糕。为什么会这么糟糕？
Well it has to do with Pinocchio's nose.	好，可能和匹诺曹的鼻子有些关系。
How many of you have recorded something today?	你们中有多少人今天记录了什么？
I can look at lies that before were said and then gone.	我可以研究曾经出现又消失的谎言。
Now, your task now is to decide which review is fake?	你们现在要决定哪一篇评论是假的？
All right, how many of you believe that A is the fake?	好，你们有多少人认为A是假的？
All right. Very good. About half.	好，非常好。大概一半人。
What does it mean for us in our lives?	对我们的生活有什么意义？
So by all means, go ahead and do that, that's good.	所以，请继续，尽管撒谎，好极了。
Okay, it's great to be back at TED.	再次回到TED演讲感觉真不错。
Why don't I just start by firing away with the video?	让我播放一段视频作为开场吧!
Should it be by just walking around looking down?	不能总是边走边低头看手机吧?
And also you want something that frees your eyes.	同时你也想解放你的眼睛。
We've learned an amazing amount.	我们得到一些不错的数据。
It's been really important to make it comfortable.	让使用者感到舒适真的很重要
So our first prototypes we built were huge.	我们制造的的第一批样品型号巨大。
It was very heavy, pretty uncomfortable.	很重，令人感到非常不舒服。
But we've come a long way.	但是我们已经取得了很大的进步。
I would just light up a cigarette. It would look cooler.	只要点支烟就好了，看起来会更酷。
Sometimes I used to walk more at night.	有时候，我很习惯在夜里散布。
I don't know where inspiration comes from.	我不知道灵感是从哪里来的。
It does not come for me from research.	对于我来说，它不来自于研究。
Because I look at the way women are portrayed all the time.	因为我总是会去观察描绘女人的方式
I go back to color all the time.	我永远都会再回到色彩上来。
Color is something that motivates me a lot.	色彩是非常能激发我灵感的事物。
I was dating this guy and it was going on for about a year, right.	我和他交往了差不多持续了一年
And we, you know, sort of introduced them to each other.	我们就，介绍他们互相认识。
They eat out, they see shows."	他们一起吃饭，一起看表演。"
"He ate out, he saw shows," right?	"他曾经去吃饭，去看表演"，是吧
So you'll have to, like, go check it out and come see me or something.	所以你们可能得亲自去看我的表演
I don't know how to put this.	我不知道怎么去形容这个。
I feel as little comfort as possible is a good thing, you know.	我觉得越不自在，反而是一件好事。
And I kind of try not to look back, you know.	我会试图不去回顾以前的事。
But I guess that's okay. Right?	但是我想这还是可以的吧，是吧？
You don't master feeling lousy about one thing.	你不会精通于对一件事感到恼人的。
And many of my friends were ballet dancers.	我很多的朋友都是芭蕾舞者
Again, I don't know where inspiration comes from.	我还是不是到灵感是从哪里来的。
I don't know where it comes from.	我不知道它从哪里就冒出来了。
And so I had this T.V. show.	所以我就做了这个电视节目。
Actually, could you roll the clip, please?	事实上，能放一下这个片子吗？谢谢
IM: Look how cute she looks with this, just a slick back.	IM:看她梳个油头看起来有多可爱
I don't want to be -- okay. Here we go.	我不想--好吧，我们开始吧。
I don't think there was ever a day where I cut hair I was nervous.	我剪头从来没有一次紧张的。
But you have to make the decision for yourself.	但是你需要自己来做决定。
My God, this is the shortest I've ever had.	天哪，这是我剪得最短的一次。
IM: I feel like it needs to be a little closer down here.	IM:我觉得这边需要下来一点。
IM: So by the way. Of all the most unboring things in the world, right.	所以，全是些最不无聊的事。
And I often look at things as though they're food.	我常常把很多事物比作食物来看。
How could you show a beat up old dress?	你怎么能穿一件破烂的洋装呢？
We actually shoot segments like T.V. show segments.	我们拍摄了很多像是电视节目的短片
And it's kind of my favorite thing in the world.	算是世界上我最喜欢做的事情了。
And that's what it was in the early days.	那就是很久以前这么做的。
And that's what people used for baking and all sorts of things.	可以用来做烘培和其他的东西。
Well, that's it. Thank you very much.	好，就这样，非常谢谢你。
In the age of globalization, we moved on.	在全球化的年代，我们继续发展。
We felt they were from the age of yesteryear.	我们觉得他们是从过去的时代来的。
And it's not just Islamist extremists that did this.	并不是只有伊斯兰极端分子这样做。
Well I believe they're getting left far behind.	我相信他们被远远的落下了。
And why are democracy aspirants falling behind?	为什么有抱负的民主份子却被赶超？
And I believe that's for four reasons.	我相信事之至此有四个原因。
Let's bring the military back again."	"我们还是继续用军统吧。"
Now to conclude, how does that happen?	现在总结一下，这是如何发生的？
Well, Egypt is a good starting point.	埃及是一个很好的出发点。
The Arab uprisings have demonstrated that this is already beginning.	阿拉伯起义证实了这一切已经开始。
And it's with that thought that I'll end.	我将以这个想法作为结尾。
And my time is up, and thank you for your time.	今天就讲到这了，感谢各位的参与。
You probably read something about it in the papers.	你可能在报纸上读到一些新闻。
And there was some concern that in some parts of the country there might be voter suppression.	在美国各地出现了选票竞争的问题。
Now that's a big claim. I'm going to try to back it up.	现在有个大要求。我说明一下。
But there is a curious asymmetry here.	但是很奇怪这有个不对应的关系。
That was the media landscape as we had it in the twentieth century.	这都是20世纪我们有的媒体前景。
That is a huge change in the media landscape we're used to.	比我们的媒体前景有了巨大变化。
And it's not just Internet or no Internet.	它不仅是网络化或者不网络化。
And the earthquake was reported as it was happening.	地震发生时，即时被报道了。
They were uploading it to QQ, China's largest Internet service.	上传到中国最大的网络服务QQ，
And so as the quake was happening the news was reported.	随着地震频频发生新闻报道了。
You may have seen in on the front page of the New York Times.	你也可能在纽约时报头版看到过。
And so they began to arrest the protesters.	所以他们开始逮捕抗议者。
They began to shut down the media that the protests were happening on.	他们开始封锁抗议者搞的媒体。
They had to turn the spigot entirely off.	他们要关闭整个推特接口信息。
This is how you reach people.	这就是你怎么传递信息给人们的。
An incredible conversation sprung up there.	令人吃惊的对话开始出现。
"Please get FISA right."	请让外国情报监察法合理化。
Obama had to issue a press release.	奥巴马只好召开一个新闻发布。
And that is the kind of discipline that it takes to make really mature use of this media.	这是一种媒体成熟使用的体系。
That's the media environment we've got.	这才是我们要的媒体环境。
Everest is an extreme environment.	珠穆朗玛是个极端的环境。
There's only one-third as much oxygen at the summit as there is at sea level.	峰顶的氧气只是海平面的三分之一。
It starts at base camp, at 17,500 feet.	从17500英尺的大本营开始。
This is pitched on a glacier at 17,500 feet.	搭建在17500英尺高的冰川上。
This is near the top of the icefall.	这是距离冰布顶部很近的地方。
That way, it's less likely to tumble down on you.	以避免冰块在你脚下分裂。
These are some climbers waiting to go to the summit.	这是些等着登顶的登山者们。
And, in fact, the wind does die down at night.	事实上，大风在那晚的确是减弱了。
This is the view looking at the southeast ridge.	这是瞭望东南山脊的景象。
A storm blew in that no one was anticipating.	暴风在无人预知的情况下突袭。
And there were climbers on that summit ridge.	而登山者们就在那个峰顶脊梁上。
I have an oxygen hose connected here.	我有一个氧气栓连在这里。
So each person climbs individually.	所以每个人都是单独攀登。
But, either way, you fall for the rest of your life.	但不管怎样，你都将坠向死亡。
It was the worst winds I've ever seen.	那是我所见过的最恶劣的暴风。
This is a view taken along the summit ridge.	这是沿着峰脊所拍摄的一张照片。
We really had no idea what was going on during that storm.	我们真的对暴风中的一切一无所知。
We were just hunkered down in our tents at Camp Three.	我们只是困守在三号营的帐篷里。
He was carrying a radio.	他当时携带着一个收音机。
They picked the name for their baby.	为他们的孩子选好了名字。
It's a tackle box filled with medical supplies.	是一个装满了医疗器备的钓具箱。
And this was scene at the lower camp.	而就是当时在低处营地的场景。
So you have the prefrontal cortex here, lighting up in red.	这里，前额的大量活动呈现红色。
This is a pretty evenly distributed scan.	这是一个分配相对平均的脑切片。
These parts of the brain are quieting down.	大脑这些部分的活动都被减缓。
And this is how he's going to turn thought back into action.	这就是他如何将思想转化为行动。
This part of the brain is called the anterior cingulate gyrus.	这部分的大脑被称为带状前回。
This is where people make decisions, where they develop willpower.	这是人们做决定、培养意志的地方。
His heart and lungs are going to pick up speed.	他的心脏和肺将开始提速。
It just shows you what the power of the mind can do.	这向你们展示了人类意志的力量。
These are Serphas lighting juniper branches.	这是一些夏尔巴人燃烧杉树枝，
There were five climbers lost here.	一共有五名登山者不幸逝世。
The first is really the notion of people.	第一个是对"人民"这一概念的理解
We talk of people as human capital.	"人民"对我们来说是一种人力资源
The second thing in India has been the change in the role of entrepreneurs.	第二点印度改变了对于企业家的定义
This change has contributed to the vitality and the whole economy.	这一改变促进了整个经济体系的繁荣
English language was seen as a language of the imperialists.	之前英语被认为是帝国主义者的语言
This has made it something that everybody wants to learn.	成为了大家蜂拥学习的一技之长
They didn't want the unions to believe that they were actually computers.	他们不想让工会认为那是电脑
And therefore democracy has become embedded.	民主也就是这样深入人心的
But now I believe it's reached a point where it has become very important.	但我觉得现在到了十分关键的时刻
So there is a big challenge in getting the schools to work.	所以学校正常运行是一个不小的挑战
It's certainly not like China.	这和中国的情况是完全不同的
And that is reflected in the kinds of situations that you see.	大家从现实生活中可以看出
The ideas that we argue about.	我们还为此进行争论的观念
These are the arguments we have which cause gridlock.	所进行的争论常常陷入僵局
And it leads to reservations and other techniques.	招致了不少异议和其他方法
The third thing is our higher education.	第三件事是我们的高等教育
Indian higher education is completely regulated.	印度的高等教育完全受到管制
It's very difficult for a foreign university to come to India.	国外的大学也很难来到印度
That is leading to a lot of problems which we need to address.	由此带来的很多问题值得我们关注
So we can use technology for governance.	所以我们可以利用科技来执政
We can use technology for direct benefits.	我们可以利用科技直接从中获益
Now why does this matter to you?	为什么这对大家很重要呢？
It matters because this is a democracy.	它重要是因为这是民主的体现
So I went to bed that night pretty excited.	于是那晚我十分兴奋的入睡。
Woke straight up. Wide-awake as could be.	我猛的起床。睡意全无，十分清醒。
Within 10 days, I was down at Fort Dix.	十天之内我就到了迪克斯堡。
ZB: Every soldier eventually wants to go in combat.	每个士兵最终都想去打仗。
Man down! Man down!	有人被击中了。有人被击中了。
MM: Keep going, brother. You wanna play?	继续开，哥们，你想完成任务？
This is Paul Anthony.	这位是PaulAnthony。
Right? And we started talking.	对吧？然后我们开始谈论。
I mean, we were there for an hour, talking.	我的意思是，我们谈论了一个小时。
And really -- because maybe we're going to disagree.	其实--是因为可能我们不会赞同。
Maybe it's going to get uncomfortable.	也是这会使我们感到不舒服。
Because I'm used to doing Q&amp;As.	因为我一直都习惯一问一答。
We don't fucking ride with the goddam windows down.	我们才他妈不开着破窗户前进呢。
Any one-four elements get to the gate!	谁都行，四个小队赶到大门那边！
Get your bag, get your bag!	拿上你的包，拿上你的CLS包！
I feel exploited and proud at the same time.	我感觉被利用了，同时也感到自豪。
I'll do that, then I'm gonna jerk off.	我会那样做，然后再手淫一番。
It's a new way of trying to make a documentary.	它是制作纪录片的一种新的尝试。
Most of the Humvees, we ended up mounting two cameras in them.	大多数输送车，装备有两台摄像机。
OK, this is a perfect example.	好的，这就是一个很好的例子。
And I've learned over time that those are always the soldiers.	逐渐的我才知道，这些人总是士兵。
And they wait until pretty much everybody's gone.	他们一直等到差不多所有人都离开。
And I knew what he was going to say.	我知道他接下来要说什么。
And he said, "I killed a child.	然后他说，"我打死了一个孩子。
And I'm a father. I have children.	我是一个父亲，我也还有孩子。
I'm afraid she's going to think I'm a monster."	我担心她会认为我是个魔鬼。"
Do you give money to any of the charities?"	你捐助过任何的慈善组织吗？"
First, I don't have a mobile, so I'm on the safe side.	首先，我没有手机所以我很安全
You people, the Church of TED, are a very optimistic community.	你们这些TED的教徒都是乐观的人
The government and the opposition, they have been simply paralyzed.	政府及其反对者们都慌了手脚
And you have more choice-driven societies.	你就有了一个存在更多选择的社会
This is the other side of the things that we like.	这就是所谓的"一个硬币有两面"
Now the revolutions are called under the medium which is most used.	现状，它们却被根据媒介来命名
The content doesn't matter anymore, the problem is the media.	内容不再重要，问题是媒介是谁
This is why you have checks and balances.	这也是为什么我们有了分权制度
So for me this is extremely important.	所以对我来说，这点至关重要
The idea is called the social impact bond.	这个想法叫做"社会效益债券"。
And here's the opportunity.	而这里就提供了这么一个机会。
The state is not a great parent.	国家并不是一位合适的家长。
That program started last month.	这个项目于上个月开始运营。
Why is this so different for people?	这对于人们而言有什么特别的？
Well, the first piece, which we've talked about, is innovation.	首先，我们已经谈到过了，是创新。
He goes, "Sir, why don't you drive?"	他说"先生，你干嘛不开车呢？"
I go, "I don't know where we're going."	我说"我不知道我们要去哪"
No. There's serious issues in the region.	不。这个地区有着很严重的问题。
I was in Lebanon, I got used to three.	我在黎巴嫩时，我习惯了亲3下。
But never like, "ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha."	但从没有像"哈哈哈哈哈哈"
And now, for my next number, I'd like to return to the classics.	好了，下一个节目我要回归经典
We start our journey in the central deserts.	我们的旅途从中央沙漠开始
Mr. Smokey Jefferson, let's take it for a walk. Come on, baby.	烟枪杰弗逊先生让我们开始吧
So we ran off to a sushi bar.	有次我们来到了某个寿司吧。
We started R&amp;D in 2006.	我们于2006年开始进行研发。
And they worked absolutely very, very, very hard.	他们真的非常非常非常努力地工作。
We did the line install over the summer.	整个夏天我们都忙于生产线的安装。
That's the finished production line there.	那是我们所完成的生产线。
We got our first panel out on December third.	并在12月3日生产出第一块墙板。
These are people who worked this project for two to three years.	他们为了这个项目整整工作了两三年
And we've got Cradle-to-Cradle Gold on this thing.	这个产品得到了C2C标志认证。
Those are my kids, Natalie and David.	这是我的孩子，纳塔莉和大卫。
For me, today, on this date, it's like a second bar mitzvah experience.	对我来说就像第二次成年礼一样
So you see, it's all intact, completely transparent.	显而易见，它是完整的完全透明的
You see the phantom within the aquarium.	可以看到玻璃缸里的透视图
This is a setup I put in a physics lab.	这是我在物理实验室里的装置
So think about, this is in your brain.	试想一下，如果这是你的大脑
We need to reach a target inside the brain.	我们要击中大脑内部的一处目标
Okay, so let's talk a little bit about ultrasound, the force of ultrasound.	接下来谈谈超声波超声波的力量
Basically, it's a force acting on a tissue that it transverses.	它横穿组织时对其产生作用力
So this is how it looks, you know, the operating room of the future today.	这就是今天看到的未来手术室的样子
So we put the patient on the MR table.	我们将病人平置于磁共振的手术台上
And the physician will then take a regular MR scan.	医生会先进行常规磁共振扫描
This is the sort of general area of the treatment.	这可以说是治疗的大致区域
The only handwork the physician does here is moving a mouse.	医生唯一的体力活就是移动鼠标
So he presses "sonicate," and this is what happens.	他按下"声处理"，接下来
You see the transducer, the light blue.	请看传感器，就是淡蓝的部分
We first need to verify that we are on target.	我们首先得确认是否命中目标
So the first sonication is at lower energy.	因此第一次超声波降解发射能量较低
It is not being used in regular diagnostic imaging.	一般不会用于常规的造影诊断
And John today is fully independent.	而约翰现在完全不用依靠别人了
Let's move now to a more painful subject.	下面我们要谈论一个痛苦的话题
Pain is something that can make your life miserable.	疼痛可以让生活变得很悲惨
They drove like three hours from their farm to the hospital.	他们从农场开了大概三个小时的车
Show us some primary cancer.	我们要看看对于那些首要癌症
So I have good news and bad news.	我这儿有好消息，也有坏消息
But I have a message for the men here.	不过有个消息提供给在场男士
But I have now a message to the ladies.	现在有一个带给女士们的消息
She's an Italian fashion designer.	她是一个意大利服装设计师
Her friend says, "Buy it already."	她的朋友说"快点买吧。"
Well, it turns out that it's actually not illegal.	但这事实上被证明是合法的
First: Is something an artistic object?	首先,什么是艺术的对象?
The other one is: Is it an idea?	另外一个是,它是不是一个信念?
There's an environmental component.	也有一定的环境因素在里面。
The tree was in part a catalyst for the project.	这棵树是我开始做这个项目的催化剂
And this is heightened by a couple of particular experiences.	一些特别的经历也为此行增光不少
And then, of course, there's the lichens.	下面我们来说说这种地衣。
These lichens grow only one centimeter every hundred years.	它每长一厘米需要一百年时间。
And then from underground to underwater.	接下来我们从地下转入水中来看看。
And I had to overcome my fear of deep water to find this one.	我不得不克服深水恐惧症去寻找它。
This is at about 60 feet or 18 meters, depth.	大概有60英尺深，大概18米吧。
And you'll see, there's some damage to the surface of the coral.	大家可以看见脑珊瑚表面有些破损。
And aside from coral, the answer is no.	除珊瑚以外，没有其他任何动物。
And the Baobabs in particular are a great example of this.	猴面包树就是一个很好的例子。
You'll notice that it's bearing cones down the center.	大家会注意到它位于中下部的球果。
This is something called an underground forest.	这是被称作地下森林的植物。
Back in the U.S., there's a couple plants of similar age.	回到美国，也有些同等年纪的植物。
You'll see also, there's a flag on Antarctica.	如大家所见，在南极洲也有面旗。
Hi, and welcome to my newscast.	嗨，欢迎来到我的新闻广播。
In those days, this was the height of technology.	在那个时代，这就是科技的高度了。
Think about the innovation that went into that.	想想投注于这个系统中的创造革新。
How is this possible? It makes no sense.	这怎么可能呢？这完全没有道理啊。
Guns and bombs are nothing new.	枪支和炸弹更是毫无新意了。
They were armed with mobile phones.	这些袭击者配备了移动电话。
They did all of this in real time.	他们实时进行着一切行动。
They used it to great effect.	他们利用它发挥了重大的作用。
This is the world that we live in.	这就是我们所生活的世界。
It's not just about terrorism, though.	尽管它并不仅仅关于恐怖主义。
Then criminals moved to robbing trains.	之后，罪犯转而抢劫火车。
But they're adapting quickly.	但是，他们适应得非常快。
You needn't bring the gun into the UK anymore.	你们再也不需要将枪带入英国了。
The technologies are allowing bigger printers.	科技将会为更庞大的打印机开路。
This is the future that awaits us.	这就是等待着我们的未来。
So how will criminals abuse this?	那么罪犯将如何滥用这项技术呢？
That has significant implications for us.	这对我们而言有着极为重大的影响。
But it goes deeper than that.	但是事情远不止这么简单。
How will we protect them in the future?	那么未来我们要如何保护他们？
That's what I get asked all the time.	这是我一直以来被追问的问题。
Just saying. Just think about that.	只是说一说。只是想一想。
Then we could all be engaged in helping.	然后我们都能够投身于帮助他人。
They want to be part of it.	他们都希望成为改变的一部分
I work in global poverty.	我是在扶贫这一领域工作的
And I met them in the early '90s.	我在90年代初的时候曾经见过她们
She was convicted of category one crimes of genocide.	后来她被指控犯有一级种族屠杀罪
And they're incredible guys.	不过他们都是很了不起的人
And my hat's off to you in Kibera.	我在这里要向他们表示尊敬
I know it works.	我知道这样的模式是行得通的
It took almost two years just to register the land.	花了两年的时间才落实了土地权
And there's schools and clinics and shops.	还有学校以及诊所、商店等
And every day we have a choice.	但是，每一天，我们都有选择
But we do not know his face.	但我们却不知道他长什么样。
I find that hard to believe.	我觉得这有点让人难以置信。
So let's try to find them.	就让我们试着把他们给找出来。
Which ones of these could be self-portraits?	这里面有哪些有可能是自画像呢？
So we can eliminate all the profiles.	所以我们排除所有的侧面画像。
It also has to be sufficiently detailed.	自画像也应该有充分的细节。
The young man should be made first.	年轻人的画像应该是最先绘制的。
They are made in the right order.	他们是按照正确的时间顺序绘制的。
The icon of icons finally has a face.	伟人中的伟人终于有了脸孔。
And of course it's born stupid.	当然，它刚出生的时候是愚蠢的。
This brain is very much a thinking machine.	大脑基本上已经是一个思考的机器。
Now this boy can bounce a soccer ball on his head.	这个男孩可以用头顶颠球。
The input doesn't really have to be meaningful.	输入的信息不一定非得有意义。
I don't have to be in a behavioral context.	我不需要在一个行为环境中。
This is actually very powerful.	这功能其实是非常强大的。
So here is a very simple experiment.	这是一个非常简单的实验。
It had a success rate of about one in eight tries.	它的成功率大约在八分之一。
Those tries were elaborate.	猴子的这些尝试是精心的。
But the monkey gradually developed a strategy.	但这个猴子渐渐地发展出一个策略。
We can look down in the brain of the monkey.	我们可以研究这只猴子的大脑内部。
These are the surfaces the monkey is using to manipulate the tool.	这些表皮是猴子用来控制工具的。
Or acquiring their native language abilities.	或者是在习得其母语能力的过程中。
It's what's rewarding to you.	是对你而言有奖励的东西。
It's constructed. It's created in your brain.	你是被构建的，在大脑中构建的。
And there are a lot of things that contribute to that.	而造成这个问题的原因很多。
That's disappeared. That no longer applies.	但现在这种看法消失了，不适用了。
What are you doing by operating on the cleft palate to correct it?	那么我们如何通过手术矫正腭裂呢？
It's muffled English. It's degraded Japanese.	是杂乱的英语，模糊的日语。
And the brain specializes for it.	而大脑却针对这些进行特化。
Now the crap doesn't just happen in the ear.	这些垃圾不只会发生在耳朵里，
Space constants are about three times greater.	空间常数大约是正常孩子的3倍。
And they are going to have poor reading skills.	所以他们将会有贫乏的阅读技巧。
This is a substantially large impact.	这会产生非常重大的作用。
Think of a classroom of children in the language arts.	想象一下上语言技能班的孩子。
And learning modulation and control is deteriorating.	学习和控制的调节装置在恶化。
Of course a lot of people will ignore this advice.	当然，许多人会忽视这个建议。
It will be a long time before they really understand it.	要他们真正理解时日尚远。
I don't even use that cloth to clean my two-wheeler.	脏得我甚至不想用它来擦屁股
I went to a local shop, I tried to buy her a sanitary pad packet.	我走进一家小店买了一盒卫生巾
The very first time, at the age of 29, that day I am touching the sanitary pad, first ever.	那时候我29岁第一次接触到卫生巾
They are not going to touch that, because it's not your matter.	这不管我们男士的事？对吗？
I need a woman volunteer. Where can I get one in India?	我需要一个女性志愿者，可是在印度
So only problem: the only available victim is my wife.	所以唯一的受害者就只能是我妻子了
Then other victims, they got into my sisters.	后来也就来了别的牺牲者，我的姐妹
But even sisters, wives, they're not ready to support in the research.	即使是姐妹和妻子，她们也不支持我
That's why I am always jealous with the saints in India.	这就是我为什么妒忌印度的圣人
That makes me to want to refuse to continue this research and research and research.	这让我很沮丧，甚至不再想继续试验
Why is this? I used medical college girls.	为什么？就因为那些医学院的女孩
A lot of people making a lot of money, billion, billions of dollars accumulating.	很多赚大钱的人积累了几十亿
Why the need for accumulating money, then doing philanthropy?	那为什么要有钱了再去做慈善呢？
That's why I'm not running after this bloody money.	这就是为什么我不急于追求血钱
I am becoming a solution provider. I'm very happy.	我提供了解决方案，我非常快乐
He had been there and watched it go off.	他在现场亲眼看着它引爆。
But seven years ago, I went to the Arctic for the first time.	我终于在七年前第一次到了北极圈。
I have swum in front of glaciers which have retreated so much.	我曾经面对着极度消退的冰川游泳，
And I had to visualize the swim.	我必须在脑海里想象我在游泳，
I had to taste the salt water in my mouth.	我要尝到我嘴里海水的咸味
I felt confident that I could actually do this swim.	我自信能够完成这次游泳。
And they were swollen so much, I couldn't even close them.	它们肿得太厉害，我的手都合不拢。
There is no possibility that this was going to happen.	我怎么可能接着游下去呢？
A number of years ago, he tried to ski all the way to the North Pole.	几年前，他试图一路滑雪征服北极。
And at worst, I didn't even want to think about it.	而最坏的打算，我都不敢再想下去。
We carried on sailing through the ice packs towards the North Pole.	我们的船又继续破冰向北极航行
And I realize the reason why you're going to do this.	也明白你要这样做的原因。
This is such an important swim.	这次游泳确实是重要非凡，
And I went down into my cabin and I put on my swimming costume.	我走进我的船舱，穿上游泳裤，
I had never seen black water before.	我还从来没有见过黑色的海水
A mother and a cub, such a beautiful sight.	熊妈妈和她的幼崽，好美的景象。
It's all a little bit frightening, and emotional.	我是有一点点害怕和激动。
Lewis Pugh: Ten seconds to swim. Ten seconds to swim.	还有十秒钟，还有十秒钟。
You did it! You did it man!	你成功了！你成功了伙计！
LP: Thank you very much. Thank you very much.	路易斯皮尤:非常感谢。非常感谢。
You saw during that video all those flags.	在录像里，你们看见了很多的旗帜。
Britain, America, Japan, South Africa, the Congo.	英国，美国，日本，南非，刚果。
All of us together, we're all on the same ship together.	我们所有的人都要同舟共济。
A bigger one for you to look at.	你们也可以看比较大的这一张。
But there's actually more to the story than that.	但更多关于此的说法却相反。
So oil is playing a less significant role every year.	因此石油重要性正在逐年下降，
And it's just limestone, nothing really special about it.	它只是石灰岩，没什么特别的。
Now, millions of abalone every year make this shell.	现在每年数以万计鲍鱼自产这种壳。
All the same, what's different?	尽管如此，有什么不同呢？
Now, what does this have to do with energy?	那么，这又与能源有什么关系？
It's not because we have a lot of it.	不是因为我们还有很多石油，
One was that they be American.	一，受访者应该是美国人。
That's the one advantage that older people have.	这是长者独有的智慧之一。
There are many kinds of interviews. We know them.	采访有很多种，我们都知道。
But I wanted interviews that were different.	但我想要的采访跟这些不一样。
This was not an oral history program.	这不仅仅是一个谈论历史的节目。
And he had never appeared in public since that point.	他自打中风后还没公开露过面。
But then I began to think of other things.	但过后我又开始思考其他一些事情。
It was about their energy.	他们自身的能量才是关键。
The journalist who did "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich."	他就是"第三德国的起落"的作者。
Didn't matter." Whatever.	没什么大不了的。"此类的话。
So she and I had a delightful conversation.	后来我们的谈话非常令人愉悦，
And I said, "I'm learning."	于是就说，"我正在学习"
Again, a remarkable person.	再说一遍，她是个杰出的人。
And she was in horrible pain.	当时她处在强烈的疼痛之中，
Was yours unhappy?"	你的童年是否也是这样？"
And I'll just give you two examples of this because of the time constraints.	时间关系我就只举两个例子吧。
But he said, "Well," he said, "I'm afraid so."	他回答道，"嗯——恐怕是的。"
She said, "Come to my apartment."	她说，"到我的公寓来吧。"
She wasn't unhappy about this. She was resigned.	她对此并不满意，但她屈服了。
She came on. Of course she was wheelchaired on.	她出来了，当然是坐着轮椅出来的。
Half of her body was stricken, the other half not.	她受中风影响，半身不遂，
It was an amazing privilege to do this series.	能完成这一系列访谈是我的幸运。
It's fantastic, it's going to blow your mind.	它非常棒,它会使你大吃一惊
Here's the thing, everybody loves a beautiful baby.	当然,每个人喜欢一个可爱的宝宝,
I mean, I was a beautiful baby.	我意思是,我曾经也是个可爱的宝宝
I'm going to start with an example from some work that we did on newborn health.	我先一些我在新生儿健康的研究讲起
I don't want to make beautiful stuff.	我不像要那些花里胡哨的东西
Who is our customer? Well here's an example.	谁是我们的消费者呢?这有一个例子
It turns out he doesn't buy any of his equipment.	我们发现他从来不买任何器材
Similarly, here's a multinational medical device manufacturer.	同样地,多国的医疗设备生产者
Okay, that was an important lesson.	好吧,这个道理还挺重要的
What's a problem you want to solve?"	你们想要解决什么问题?"
So jaundice affects two-thirds of newborns around the world.	黄疸影响世界三分之二的新生儿
So as you can imagine, that's expensive and a little bit dangerous.	你也能想象到,这比较贵而且有风险
So it's over the baby, illuminating a single patient.	在婴儿头上,照亮一个病人
The effectiveness of phototherapy is a function of light intensity.	光学治疗的效果是跟光的强度有关的
We see other examples of problems like this.	我们还看到其他像这样的问题,
There are only dumb products.	只有笨蛋产品,没有笨蛋使用者
We have to think like existentialists.	我们必须像存在主义者一样思考,
It's the use -- designed for actual use.	这是实际上的作用,从设计而来
How are people actually going to use this?	那么人们到底怎么样用它呢?
So thinking about outcomes, it turns out appearances matter.	因此考虑结果,外表是重要的
So we took all that information together.	所以我们把这些信息都结合在一起
So from the very beginning we started by talking to manufacturers.	从一开始我们就找那些生产商谈话
So that's the design for manufacture question.	这就是对于生产方面的设计
Well that's why we have lights above and below the baby in Firefly.	这就是为什么我们在上下都一个灯源
We actually got rid of all of that stuff.	不过我们最终拿掉了那个东西
So Firefly's totally sealed.	因此Firefly完全都封住了
So I was thinking about, what I really want to do is change the world.	因此我真正想做的是改变世界
I have to pay attention to manufacturing and distribution.	我必须对于生产和分配很重视
I actually have to pay attention. Really, there's no excuse for failure.	因此说真的,对于失败是没有借口的
I have to think like an existentialist.	我必须跟存在主义者一样思考
We have to ask ourselves hard questions.	我们必须问自己难回答的问题
I got into this business designing products.	我进去了这个商业设计产品
And that's design that matters.	而这才是要紧的设计,需要的设计
You are meddling in the internal affairs of our partner countries.	你这是在干预我们合作国家的内政。
In Germany, foreign bribery was allowed.	在德国，对外行贿是被允许的。
This is what these other cultures demand.	那是其他的文化所要求的。
Cabinet ministers would admit this.	内阁大臣们承认了这一点。
And that's why the law has changed.	这就是为什么法律被改变了。
Let me just try to draw some conclusions from what has happened.	让我就试着总结一下发生的事。
We also need much more competence of civil society leaders.	我们也需要更胜任的民权社会领袖。
I'm suffering from gallery fatigue.	我正在受到博物馆审美疲劳的折磨
In fact, most of the time I don't see it.	实际上,大多数情况我都不这么想
And I leave feeling actually unhappy.	然后呢我离开的时候心情还不好
So it's the first thing I do is, I do my own curation.	因此我做的第一件事是自己筛选
Why not apply that to our looking at paintings?	那为什么我们不也在画上用呢?
This is the most glorious painting.	这是我见过最繁华的绘画作品
Now I began to think of it as a portrait of a relationship.	现在我觉得是对于一段感情的描绘
So here's how I came up with the story.	现在我告诉你我怎么想的故事
Well, there've been suggestions that she is his 12-year-old daughter.	有记录表明她是他的12岁的女儿
The daughter at the time was 12 when he painted the painting.	在那副画里,他女儿当时就是12岁
How do we get her into the studio?	那我们怎么把她弄到工作室里呢?
It would have been a chaotic, noisy household.	家里按说应该非常吵闹和乱
She's in the studio. He's got her in the studio, they're together.	这样她就在工作室里面,他们在一起
She's in the studio with him for a long time.	她在工作室里与他呆了很长时间
They would have spent the time alone, all that time.	他们单独在一起呆了很长时间
Not the painter, I don't want to think about the painter.	不会是画家,我不想去想那个画家
I'm thinking of an older version of himself.	我在想一个更老一点的他自己
He's not happy, and why isn't he happy?	他不是很高兴,不过为什么呢?
The second thing that really attracted me were his bright red cheeks.	第二个吸引我的是他亮红的脸蛋
He is blushing. He's blushing for his portrait being made!	他脸都红了,因为别人在给他画肖像
What is he thinking about that's making him blush?	那他在想什么以至于他的脸红了呢?
Silk, gray, those beautiful buttons.	丝质,灰色,带着美丽的扣子
He'd be preoccupied with his inheritance, with his heir.	他应该对他的家产和遗产很着迷
Only George could call me Rosy.	只有George把我叫做玫瑰红
He managed to make the word tender.	他想要让这个世界更加温暖
But it is difficult to hear the words aloud.	不过实际听到这一刻却很难
I have a story, a story that I would like to share with you.	我有一个故事要跟大家分享
It is a story of hope, resilience and glamour.	一个有关希望，生命力和魅力的故事
It has created thousands, if not tens of thousands of jobs.	它创造了至少数以千计的工作
My father also lived most of his adult life in East Africa.	我父亲成年的日子也大多在东非度过
And these are six minutes they really prepared for the TED audience.	这六分钟昰专为TED观众准备的
Peace Piberesima: We're doing films for the masses.	我们拍的电影是給大众看的
I mean, 90 percent of the population will watch Nollywood.	我是说90%的人观看尼莱坞电影
Suspense, fun and intrigue.	充满悬念，乐趣丛生，引人入胜
Bernard Pinayon Agbaosi: We have been so deep into the foreign movies.	我们长期以来总是迷恋外国电影
It's all about the foreign movies.	外国电影一直是关注的中心
Come on. Don't run away. Come back. Come back.	来吧，别跑了，回来，回来
SMW: You can now walk the street and see a role model.	现在你走在大街上，就能见到榜样
You see how he talks. You see how he lives.	你看他怎么样说话，怎么样生活
It's not just what you see in the picture.	不仅仅是你在电影里面所看到的
Saint Obi: I was so fascinated, you know, with those cowboy movies.	我曾经痴迷那些西部牛仔电影
Just me and God-given talent.	就靠我自己和上帝赋予的才能
Roboger Animadu: In big countries, when they do the movies, they have all these things in place.	大国制作电影的时候他们设备精良
That's why I use enough masking tape.	这就是我得用足够的胶带的原因
But she's a professional. She knows what she's doing.	其实她很专业，知道自己在做什么
This ain't going to be my last movie.	这可不是我演的最后一部电影
Franco Sacchi: So many things to say, so little time.	掌声要说的太多，时间太少
And this has unleashed tremendous energy.	科技让巨大的创造力释放出来
I hope that the Nollywood phenomenon will go both ways.	我希望尼莱坞现象能够起双向作用
I really think it goes both ways.	我确实认为尼莱坞的作用是双向的
Difficult, eh? It's meaningless.	很难想象，对吧？毫无意义
Toyin Alousa: Nollywood is the best thing that can happen to them.	尼莱坞是发生在他们身上最好的事情
And we know that there are more.	我们知道实际数量比这还多
It's a CD basically. It's a compact disc.	实际上它是一种光盘，压缩光盘
I'm almost like a crazy evangelical.	我几乎像一个疯狂的福音派信徒，
There are still people that believe that there's a high and there's a low.	仍然有人确信有高雅有低俗，
I'm bringing in the end of the world. You know?	我将带来世界的尽头，你们知道吗？
And does it matter?" Thank you. Does it matter?	这重要吗？谢谢。重要吗？
Excuse me. You're missing the point.	抱歉，你们正在忽略重点内容。
You know, we have to go through that.	你们知道，我们必须穿越它。
I mean, that interface is beautiful.	我的意思是，它的界面是很漂亮的。
I'm sure that all of you know Katamari Damacy.	我确信在座的各位都知道«块魂»，
Not to mention Eve Online.	更不用说«星战前夜»了。
Of course, there are games that are even more educational.	当然，有更加有教育意义的游戏。
Right? We had to make decisions.	是吧？我们必须做出一个决定。
So it was not very constructive.	所以它并不是非常有建设性的。
So it's quite a hefty collection.	这的确是一个巨大的收藏。
You acquire the relationship with the company.	你还收购与公司之间的关系。
We're going to stay with them forever.	我们将永远和它们在一起，
And one day, we'll get that code.	总有一天，我们会得到那个代码。
And so is space, the spatial aspect of games.	游戏的空间方面也是如此。
The real core issue of interaction design is behavior.	交互设计的真正的核心问题是行为。
They're not just limited to our interaction with the screen.	它们并不局限于我们与屏幕的互动。
I would like to do the same with video games.	我也想这样来介绍电子游戏。
I would like to acquire it, but without owning it.	我想要收购它，但不想拥有它。
It was the first example of an acquisition of something that is in the public domain.	它是公共领域收藏品的第一个例子。
I've had to do away with a few concepts of design past.	我不得不废除过去设计的一些概念。
I don't want you to see what I'm doing up here.	我可不想让你们看到我在这儿做什么
And we continue to work with this client.	我们现在也在继续与这个客户合作
The building on the right at the top is now under construction.	在右上方的那个建筑现在正在建造
And after we failed, I just kept failing.	在我们失败后，我又屡战屡败
So, it was an accidental discovery.	所以，这是一个偶然的发现
And so I made a drawing with a fish, and I left Japan.	所以我就画了条鱼，然后离开了日本
This was built in six months.	这个东西在六个月内就建成了
Toxic waste, I guess, is the key clue to that one.	有毒废料，我猜，应该是主要原因
And the next night, we had gefilte fish.	到了第三天晚上，我们吃了鱼丸子
And he didn't buy a sculpture, so I made one.	他没有买雕塑，所以我就做了一个
We made it into a sailing craft.	笑声我们把它做成水上工艺品
I've been known to mess with things like chain link fencing.	大家知道我运用过铁丝网之类的材料
It's in perspective and everything.	这合情合理也是需要的全部
And you can see, we started making a building together.	你可以看到，我们开始一起设计
And it seemed to work as a way to put he and I together.	看上去我们能这样一起合作
Stanley was instrumental in my getting this job.	Stanley帮我搞到了这份工作
I put him in a hole and made a kind of a hole that he sits in.	我设计了一个洞给他的建筑
And he put these two bridges with pink guardrails on it.	于是他设计了两座有粉红色护栏的桥
And so then I put this big billboard behind it.	然后我把这个大招牌放在了后面
Instead of, like, copper in 10 or 15.	而不像纯铜，在10到15年里变色
I flew in one night and took this picture.	有天晚上我坐飞机过去照了这张照片
It's the support labs, which, by some coincidence, required no windows.	这个供应实验室碰巧不需要开窗
In the curved part there's all the mechanical equipment.	在曲线的部分是所有的机械设备
It gave me an opportunity to make a sculpture out of it.	这给了我把它做成一个雕塑的机会
They've been building it so long I don't remember where it is.	他们修了太久了我都忘了是在哪里
I thought it was fitting for me to be doing that.	我觉得让我来做这个项目还挺合适的
And so we finally ended up making it.	所以最后我们把它设计成这样
And the building is very sculptural as you walk around it.	当你绕着建筑走时它显得十分雕塑化
This is the city hall over here somewhere, and the courthouse.	这边某处是市政厅，而这边是法院
And the centerline of the mall goes out.	购物中心的中心线一直延伸出去
So it's about a 10-story C-clamp.	所以这是一座10层楼的C形坡道
This owner has a pet peeve about bad automobile entries.	业主对于糟糕的车行入口意见很大
This is a piece of property in Brentwood.	这是在Brentwood的一块地
The landscape is being built around to create a private garden.	周围布置了景观来营造一个私家花园
Anyway, you enter into a garden with a beautiful grove of trees.	好了，你进入一个有美丽树丛的花园
A guest bedroom, which has this dome with marble on it.	一个客房，有大理石吊顶的穹顶
And the bed is back in this space, with windows looking out onto the lake.	而床在这个空间后面有向湖的窗子
And you feel like you're in your own kind of village.	你觉得有点像在你自己的村落里
There's a new library across the river.	河对面有一座新建的图书馆
And I struggled with that thing -- how to get around the corner.	这东西让我很挣扎如何回避这个角
And the idea was to make this express the energy of this.	我的概念是由此来表现建筑的活力
And this will be some kind of high-tech billboard.	而这边将会是某种高科技广告牌
If any of you guys have any ideas for it, please contact me.	如果你们任何人有设计它的点子
And I keep thinking, "This is going to be the last fish."	我总是告诉自己，这是最后一条鱼了
And this piece here is -- I don't know what it is.	这边这个是--我不知道这是什么
We've had a lot of fun working together.	我们一起做了很多有意思的工作
And the plan of this -- it's a concert hall.	而平面上--这是个音乐厅
Everybody liked the surround.	大家都喜欢里面的环绕音效
Originally, this was all solid with a hole in it.	最开始这是一个开洞的实体
Let's not forget it's a functional entity.	我们别忘了它也是一个功能实体。
And then we have the sensual factor of the face.	我们的脸上也有官能要素。
Where do we like to kiss people?	我们喜欢亲吻别人什么地方?
On the lips. Nibble the ears maybe.	嘴唇上。也许在耳边轻咬。
It's the face where we're attracted to with that.	这正是因为我们被面部所吸引。
Max has kindly donated his photograph to me.	马克斯好心的把他的照片捐赠给我。
As you can see, it's blocking her vision.	你可以看到，肿瘤阻挡了她的视线。
After surgery, everything normalizes.	手术之后，一切归于正常。
It's a crippling time.	那是个让人束手无策的时期。
People were making misjudgments all the time on her mood.	人们总是错误的判断她的情绪。
And that's the change that can be achieved for teenagers.	青少年们可以实现这样的改变。
He looks pretty good at this stage.	他这个时期看起来还不错。
I learned a huge amount from Henry.	我从亨利那里学到了很多东西。
I don't say he overcame this; he didn't overcome it.	我并不是说他战胜了肿瘤;他没有。
Henriapi illustrates this phenomenon as well.	亨利阿皮也阐述了这个现象。
For instance, there are two different types of facial surgery.	比如说,有两种不同的面部手术。
They're trying to achieve difference in their lives.	整容手术病人想要改变生活。
They have it forced upon them.	但是他们被迫要做面部手术。
We make judgments on people's faces all the time.	我们根据人的面部做判断每时每刻。
Good-looking people are always judged as being more friendly.	好看的人们总是会被认为更加友好。
And so they want to see live witnesses.	所以他们想见到现场目击人。
We made a model of the jaw without bone in it.	我们做了个无骨的的颚部模型。
So the patient's life is restored.	这位病人恢复了正常生活。
I can put it in place where it's meant to be.	我可以将它放在它应该在的地方。
In the U.K. we have an epidemic of facial injuries among young people.	在英国面部创伤在年轻人中很普遍。
And that's what I want to talk to you a little bit about today.	这就是今天我想给大家讲述的内容。
Everyone says it couldn't be done.	当时，所有的人都认为这行不通
And then we talk about organic food.	现在，我们来谈一谈有机食品。
One of my big soapboxes right now is antibiotics.	现在我想着重谈一谈抗生素。
Seventy percent -- it's unbelievable.	百分之七十，不可思议的数字。
The antithesis of this whole thing is sustainable food.	与之相反的是可持续性食物。
It really is just a new idea.	这完全是一个全新的理念。
It's no wonder, you know, we have criminals.	也难怪犯罪分子层出不穷了。
And what's happening is, we're getting sick.	随之出现的是，我们的身体越来越差
It is about what we feed them.	这和我们为孩子们提供的食物有关。
We really are what we eat.	摄入的食物和我们休戚相关。
You know, we are responsible for what kids eat.	我们有责任去决定孩子该吃些什么。
Well, this is the food I found 24 months ago.	好吧，这是我在两年前看到的食品。
This is not even food.	这简直就不能被称之为食品。
The USDA allows this.	这就是美国农业部许可的。
The USDA allows all of this stuff.	美国农业部对所有这些都开了绿灯。
We really have to teach children that chicken is not a giraffe.	我们必须教给孩子鸡不是长颈鹿。
And you see these recipes on the side?	你们注意到旁边这些食谱了吗？
The really tiny hamburger, the really big vegetables.	小份的汉堡和大颗的蔬菜。
Where is socialization? Where is discussion?	没有社会交往，也没有交流讨论，
And we have to pull it all together. We have composting in all of our schools.	在我们的校园里有堆肥制造装置。
Schools are underfunded.	大多数的学校面临资金不足的难题。
We need to -- we need to educate.	我们必须要我们必须要进行教育。
We need to educate the kids.	我们必须要对孩子进行教育。
We need to educate the staff.	我们必须要对员工进行教育。
And, you know, I'm not that better off now.	大家都知道，我们的资金并不充裕。
But we really have to educate.	但是教育这件事不能松懈。
You know, it's crazy. It's crazy what we're doing.	要知道，我们所做的一切太荒唐了。
You know what? We should be ashamed.	你知道吗，我们应该为此感到羞耻。
Sit down and care.	只需要坐下来，用心地陪一陪孩子。
Storm chasing is a very tactile experience.	追逐风暴是充满感官刺激的体验
All my relations. Thank you.	所有与我息息相关的人，谢谢
It's moving by itself, okay.	基本上都以自驾车为主，对吧。
"Oh, but surely someone must be in charge.	"哦，但总得有个人拍板的吧。
"No. No. No one is in charge.	"不，不，不，没人管的。
It basically organizes itself."	基本上它是自发组织起来的。"
This is a map of Stockholm, my hometown.	这是我的家乡，斯德哥尔摩的地图。
Because you still have 80 percent of the traffic.	因为还有80％的车辆在车流当中。
But fortunately, it also works the other way around.	不过幸运的是，反过来也是成立的。
You really reduce congestion quite substantially.	拥堵的状况确实得到了很大的缓解。
Okay. So why can that be? Why is that?	OK这怎么可能呢？是为什么呢？
You should just nudge them in the right direction.	只需要朝正确的方向进行微调。
I was walking through the forests of my grandmother's tales.	我走过祖母讲过的故事里的树林
And I shared their bread and their prayer.	倾听他们的祷告并分享他们的食物
One day, I crossed the bridge over the Oxus River.	有天我走过奥克苏斯河上的桥
And I understood that his surprise was my protection.	我明白他惊讶于我的毫无装备
My only weapon was my notebook and my Leica.	我唯一的武器就是我的笔记本和莱卡
And their love [for studying] was so big that I cried.	还有她们对学习的热爱我不禁流泪了
It was a hippie journal of self-sufficiency.	这是一本自以为是，嬉皮风的期刊。
This book's title's subtitle is: "Access to Tools."	这本书的副标题是"拿起工具"。
And in parting I said, "Is there anything I should do?"	最后我问他，我能做点什么吗？
The question was, where from?	问题是，到底是什么地方的癌症？
I mean, she knows I'm not a dog.	我想说，她知道我不是一条狗，
But what we saw -- this is an MRI image.	但我们看到的，这是MRI的图像。
What we saw in that kidney was that big blob there.	我们在肾部看了一个大肿块。
I also found my wife online.	我在网上认识了我的妻子。
So I looked for quality information.	所以我尝试搜索有质量的信息
Where does medical ability end and start?	医疗水平能解决到什么程度？
Almost all patients are incurable."	几乎所有的病人都是治不好的。
I didn't feel sick at all.	我一点不觉得有什么不舒服
It was really something.	真不知道这是一个什么事儿。
I had one. My leg eventually snapped.	我有一个。我的腿最后断掉了。
I had kidney cancer growing out of my tongue.	我的肾癌转移到了我的舌头里。
I was facing the grave.	我一条腿就已经跨到坟墓里去了。
And don't let them give you anything else first.	先不要让他们告诉你别的事情。
And look at how the tumor sizes plummeted in between.	再看肿瘤大小是如何迅速减少的
She studied health care like me.	她像我一样演技医疗事业。
Patients are such an underutilized resource.	病人是如此没有被充分利用的资源，
And I thought, "You know, I wonder what my soleus muscle is?"	我想说，我想了解什么是比目鱼肌？
So you can click on things and remove it.	你可以点击不同的部位并且移动它。
Well that's not what he was supposed to do with it.	这不是他通常会做的事情。
We can use it for drinking and agriculture.	这种水可以用来饮用或者灌溉农田。
But we're also left with a concentrated salt solution, or brine.	但我们同时也有很浓的盐水剩下。
And this is where my collaboration with bacteria comes into play.	而这就是我和细菌合作的开始。
Now flight is an inherently difficult thing.	飞行是一件本质上很困难的事情。
And this enables them to orient in complete darkness.	这就足以让他们在一片漆黑中定位。
However, there are a group that do not use echolocation.	然而有一种蝙蝠不用回声定位。
Now this is going to be important for what I'm going to tell you later during the talk.	这点很重要我下面的演讲也会提到。
Bats are usually synonymous with some type of evil events.	蝙蝠常常是某些邪恶事情的同义词。
But most bats are voracious insect predators.	大多数的蝙蝠喜欢捕食昆虫。
So I want you to look at the person beside you.	我想你看看在你身边的人。
Well, I believe we just look at nature's experiments.	我认为我们只要看看大自然的实验。
We're looking at blindness. Now why would you do this?	我们研究失明。为什么要这么做呢？
So why should we be interested in aging at all?	我们为什么要对老化问题感兴趣呢？
Who -- put up your hands -- who says two years?	谁，举起你们的手，谁认为是两年？
Think of a mouse. But bats are very different.	比方说老鼠。但蝙蝠很不一样。
Just imagine what that would be like.	想象一下那将会是什么样子。
Why did America get serious?	那么，美国为什么会认真起来？
Europe had to be dragged into economic development.	欧洲定需被拉进一场经济新发展。
So, what did you do, last time you got serious?	所以你们上次是怎么做的？
So, total reversal of trade policy.	这是完全扭转过来的贸易政策。
So, total reversal of security policy. Anything else?	你们彻底扭转了安全政策。还有吗？
Is that easier or harder?	这将会是更容易抑或更难？
It's a huge opportunity for transformational development.	这是对发展进行转型的巨大机遇。
That's what we're seeing across the bottom billion at the moment.	他们采取的都是速成之道。
Democracies make even more of a mess of these resource booms than autocracies.	民主所带来的麻烦比独裁还麻烦。
They haven't got them.	但它们仍未取得这些东西。
People wanted to know what their government was getting in terms of revenue.	人民渴望得知他们政府的税收情况。
I can't go through all of them, but I'll give you an example.	我没时间进行细述，就举个例子吧。
And the first step in that is selling the rights to resource extraction.	因此第一步就应是出售资源开采权。
A company flies in, does a deal with a minister.	一间公司插入，与部长进行交易，
It went for 20 billion pounds through auction.	拍卖会的成果则是两百亿英镑。
And yet, we've not got these rules.	如今，我们还未建立那些规则。
I grew up in a culture of self-effacement.	我是生长一种自谦的文化氛围中。
So I want to talk to you about two things tonight.	今晚，我想同大家讲两件事
Who here has had surgery?	在座的有人接受过外科手术吗？
Did you want it?	你当时想接受外科手术吗？
Let me tell you, surgeons are not born.	要我说，手术师没有天生的
Then we teach them to be a surgeon in training.	之后，训练他们怎么做手术师
You get your board certificate, and you can go out into practice.	好了，拿到了证书就可以实战演练了
And are we talking about just people here in the U.S. and Canada?	仅仅是美国和加拿大的手术师吗？
So we have a problem, and one of the problems is distance.	所以现在就有个问题，距离
We need to make the world a smaller place.	我们得把这个世界变小一点
And I think that we can develop some tools to do so.	或许开发一些工具能够解决这个问题
This is Allan Okrainec from Toronto.	他叫艾伦奥科莱耐，来自多伦多
We have a lot to learn.	等待我们学习的东西还有很多
Maybe we have something to learn as well.	或许我们也要学习一些事情
They have to be able to teach us something as well.	他们同样可以教会我们一些事情
A lexicon is a body of words that describes a domain.	它是一个描述某领域的词汇系统
And in that I need a surgery lexicon.	这其中，我需要一部手术辞典
And we currently have access to eleven language pairs.	目前，共十一组语言配对可供使用
Students may display captions in their native language.	学生可以显示其母语的字幕
Orient your loop this way.	你的缝线圈圈应该是这样的
I never studied sculpture, engineering or architecture.	我从未学习过雕塑工程设计或者建筑
The deadline for the show arrived -- my paints didn't.	画展快要开幕了可画还没运到
But to make large forms was too heavy and expensive.	但要雕刻大型的铜像很笨重且很费钱
It's a self-portrait titled "Wide Hips."	它是一个自画像名为"宽臀"
We hoisted them on poles to photograph.	笑声我们用杆将它支起来拍照
I didn't know where to begin, but I said yes.	笑声我不知从何开始但我说能
I'll leave you with this story.	最后，我要告诉你们这个故事
I got a call from a friend in Phoenix.	我接到了凤凰城一个朋友的电话
You can mimic what you can see.	你可以直接模仿我的挥动方式。
I'm going to tell you about that technology.	我现在就要来告诉大家这项技术
People envision this as being very difficult.	人们总认为这会是一向艰难的挑战。
You could be attacked by white blood cells in the arteries.	你可能会被动脉中的白血球攻击。
We're going to fly into my colleague Peter's brain.	我们将要进入我同事彼得的脑中。
So put your arms back up and flex your bicep.	把你手臂放在背后并使二头肌收缩。
"What is worth dying for?"	"我们应该为什么牺牲？"
But I think this is quite clearly untrue.	但我认为这很明显是错误的
They are facts about the well-being of conscious creatures.	是人类如何可以获得幸福生活的实证
Why don't we feel compassion for rocks?	为什么我们对石头没有仁爱之情？
Would adding cholera to the water be a good idea?	在水中加入霍乱病毒是对的吗？
And morality relates to these truths.	或把这些事实和道德做联结
And the rationale for this behavior is explicitly religious.	宗教往往是这些做法背后的理由
It's now around 80 in the developed world.	现在已发展国家的平均寿命是80
But there's nevertheless a clear distinction between food and poison.	但从没有人会把食物和毒物搞错
There are moments when it is the only good thing you can do.	在某些必要时刻，那是你唯一能做的
Consider the great problem of women's bodies: What to do about them?	想想女性身体政治我们该怎么做？
Well this is one thing you can do about them: You can cover them up.	有个方法是你可以把它们盖起来
Well, who are we not to say this?	我们凭什么可以这样说呢？
He likes chocolate, he likes vanilla.	他喜欢巧克力，他喜欢香草
That is what it is for knowledge to count.	那就是为什么我们应该依靠知识
Language seems to be really important here.	语言似乎是个很重要的元素
A lot of people want to believe in this concept of moral progress.	许多人想要相信道德进步的这个概念
But can you reconcile that?	但是这有可能达到和谐吗？
And I think there are clearly right answers to that.	我想这些问题是有正确答案的。
Here, in front of this building, I'm sure.	我敢肯定这栋建筑物的前面就有。
What damage [does] it actually inflict on the plant?	它会对植物产生什么样的害处?
By the way, they are hungry always.	换句话说，它们一直都很饿。
By the way, it's springtime now in Israel.	对了，现在在以色列正值春天，
Females giving rise to females giving rise to other females.	母的生母的，然后再生出母的。
And they are very happy with that, apparently.	看起来它们对此还挺开心的。
By the way, the aphid tries to escape.	对了，这只蚜虫试图要逃脱。
This is not fiction, nothing at all.	这可不是小说里幻想的内容。
You see in the upper left corner, you see a single predatory mite.	在左上角有单只的掠食性螨。
And this is the whole bunch of predatory mites.	我们这是在量产那种掠食性螨。
So this is what I call amplification of the phenomenon.	这就是我说的去放大这种自然机制。
And no, we do not disrupt the balance.	我们并不是在破坏生态平衡。
And thirdly, public demand.	第三名的答案是，公众的需求。
Because, you see, this is the reality.	因为你知道吗，这就是现实状况。
So there is a huge gap to bridge.	所以这有着很大的落差需要去填补。
So actually, how can we do it?	所以事实上，我们该怎么做？
And this gap really narrows.	如此，这个落差就会变小。
I don't know what the hell I'm doing here.	我压根儿不明白我到底来这儿干嘛
This is a chain gang of guys admiring the car.	这是一票爱车族在膜拜这辆车。
But the zeppelin was the biggest thing that ever moved made by man.	飞艇是人类创造的会动的最大玩意儿
This is tank polo in the South Hamptons.	这是南汉普顿的坦克马球，这是
I think it adds a huge amount.	我觉得它给我的作品增色不少
Happy little story, isn't it?	多喜兴的小故事啊，不是么？
Anybody who was anybody had an apartment there.	丽兹大厦有公寓的人非富则贵
This is the only fashion cover I've ever done.	这是我画的唯一一个时尚封面
It was perfectly clear. I didn't do any thinking about it.	清晰无比，我想都不需要想
We all think a lot about how to live well.	我们都在想如何更好的生活
I design reading programs for preschoolers.	我为学前班的孩子设计阅读课程
And we learned a few things about how to have a good end.	并且我们学到了如何有个好的结局
This gave them the peace of mind to move forward.	这给了他们一片祥和，然后继续前行
In both cases, last days are about quiet reassurance.	两种情况，最后的几天都非常安详
Saying we'd like to die at home is not a plan.	所以说想死在家里，并不是一个计划
What do you want in terms of medical intervention?	你希望医疗保护的干预么？
In either case, do not settle.	不管哪种情况，都不要定下来
What about ourselves?	那么，美国是什么状况呢？
But how can we make sense out of the complexities of this subject?	那么我们该如何来理清头绪呢？
What's going to be the outcome today?	当今社会可能会走向何方呢？
But this is quite good.	但在场吃过昆虫的人也相当多了。
Insects are animals that walk around on six legs.	用六条腿行走的动物就是昆虫。
Well we know that that was not a cheap war.	我们都知道伊拉克战争花费不菲。
They remove dung, they pollinate our crops.	它们清除粪便，给农作物授粉。
Some fruits get some insect damage.	一些水果进了虫有些损害。
Those are the fruits, if they're tomato, that go to the tomato soup.	如果是番茄，他们就被制成番茄汤。
The human population is growing very rapidly and is growing exponentially.	人口总数正快速地，成倍地增长着。
How are we going to feed this world?	我们将怎样养活这个世界？
In the developing world it's much lower.	在发展中国家这个平均值要低得多。
They have the same share that we have.	他们和我们一样，享有同等的需求。
You'll get proteins in any kind of food anyway.	从任何食物中都能获取蛋白质。
You get a new disease that can be deadly.	产生的这种新疾病是会致命的。
So if you would be an entrepreneur, what would you do?	要是你是个企业家，你会做什么？
So that's four points for insects.	这是食用昆虫的第四点好处。
So the question is, why not eat insects?	所以问题是，为什么不食用昆虫呢？
On the right-hand side you see a grasshopper.	在右手边，你看到的是蚱蜢。
You can vary enormously.	人们可以享用很多种类的昆虫。
So why are we not eating insects yet?	那么我们为什么还不食用昆虫呢？
So we have to get used to the idea of eating insects.	所以我们得去适应食用昆虫的想法。
And they're being made in the most wonderful ways.	它们会被做成最美味的佳肴。
And when she got all the Ministers of Agriculture of the E.U.	当她最近邀请欧盟所有农业部长
Reset the three minutes, that's just not fair.	重设时间，负责对她不公平
I mean I'm nervous enough as it is.	我是说，我已经够紧张的了
But I am not as nervous as I was five weeks ago.	不过我已经没有五周前那么紧张了
Five weeks ago I had total hip replacement surgery.	五周以前我做了全髋骨置换手术
But first you need to know two things about me.	但首先我有两件事需要事先说明
Now, in Canada, we have that great healthcare system.	在加拿大，我们有很好的医保制度
That means we get our new hips for free.	那意味著置换髋骨是免费的
So my hip had been hurting me for years.	我的髋骨已经折磨了我好多年
Hey, are you from Canada? "Oh, me too! Hi!"	嗨，你是加拿大人？"我也是，嗨"
No, no. Front of the line.	不，不。这次我要抢在前面
Yeah. They needed some young blood.	是的。他们需要一些新鲜血液
It's gonna be so great when the pain stops. Ow!"	不用再受苦了，真是太好了！"
And, you know, I'm not even ashamed of that.	但你知道，我丝毫不对此感到羞愧
First of all, I am going to take such good care of this new hip.	首先，我会很好地对待我的新髋骨
What time is it? What time is it?	什么是时间？什么是时间？
It was the world's first popular computer.	星盘是当时最为盛行的工具。
The plate corresponds to a coordinate system.	这件圆盘则与地平坐标系相照应。
And the central idea that makes this computer work is this thing called stereographic projection.	构建星盘的核心技术就是赤平投影。
The idea is actually relatively simple.	这个构思是相对较为简单的。
So the North Star corresponds to the center of the device.	因此北极星就位于星盘的中央。
Now, the real genius of the astrolabe is not just the projection.	真正吸引人的不是星盘的投影功能。
So how would you use this device?	因此我们因如何使用这件器具？
This is an astrolabe. Pretty impressive, isn't it?	这是一件星盘。很漂亮，不是么？
And in the back you can see a spider web pattern.	而于星盘的内部，则是一蛛网图案。
You know, I've always wanted one of these.	其实我很想得到一件星盘。
For my thesis I actually built one of these out of paper.	我的毕业作品就是一件纸质星盘。
And then I measure its altitude.	好，让我们记录下它的高度。
Right. So, that's how the device is used.	这就是如何使用这件设备。
And the astrolabes come in many different sizes and shapes and forms.	星盘有各种各样的形状和结构。
So, the earliest retes, for example, were very simple and primitive.	最早的网环是非常原始和简陋的。
This is one from Oxford.	这只星盘是来自牛津大学。
How cool is that? This is just amazing.	言语已无法形容其之神奇。
So, what does the astrolabe inspire?	因此星盘给予了我什么启迪？
And what we gain with a new technology, of course, is precision and accuracy.	如今的技术使我们获得了精准度。
So, it's -- I think astrolabes are just remarkable devices.	我认为星盘是一件非凡的器具。
It stands for Self-excited Tripedal Dynamic Experimental Robot.	全称是自激式三足动态实验机器人。
But before that, let's look at pop culture.	说之前，先看看当下流行文化。
So, this is an actual dynamic simulation animation.	这是一段真实的动态仿真动画。
It's a constantly falling process.	这是一个不断下落的过程。
What you see over here, this yellow thing, this is not a death ray.	这里面黄色的区域，不是死光。
So, it's a wheel-leg hybrid robot.	它是一种"轮-腿"混合机器人。
But the current rovers cannot get there.	不过目前火星车还探测不了峭壁。
Also for search and rescue applications as well.	也可以应用在搜索和救援工作上。
We developed our adaptive gait planner.	我们开发了自适应步态规划软件。
We get so many visitors visiting our lab.	我们的实验室有很多参观者。
This robot is an amoeba robot.	这个机器人是一个变形虫机器人。
We store potential energy to the elastic skin to make it move.	弹性表皮上存有势能，使之移动。
Robotic Air Powered Hand with Elastic Ligaments.	带有弹性韧带的气压机器手臂。
There are a lot of really neat, very good robotic hands out there in the market.	市面上有不少不错的机器手臂。
The problem is they're just too expensive, tens of thousands of dollars.	不过动辄就要几万美元太贵了。
We developed these novel actuators for joints.	我们开发这些新型驱动器的关节。
And it can actually crush an empty soda can.	它的力气可以压扁一个空可乐罐。
This is a robot that can climb structures.	这是一个可以攀爬的机器人。
This is a HyDRAS's arm.	这是一个HyDRAS型机器臂。
Now, this robot is currently our star robot.	这部机器人，是我们的明星机器人。
Is it even possible? What kinds of controls should we do?	可行吗？我们做什么样的控制？
And now DARwIn II is completely autonomous.	DARwInII是全部自主式的。
Dennis Hong: So, there is actually a competition called RoboCup.	有个竞赛叫机器人世界杯赛。
You're going to see the action, three against three, completely autonomous.	三对三完全自主的机器人。
And it walks away. So, this is DARwIn IV.	它走开。这是DARwIn四型，
Where do we come up with these ideas?	我们从哪里想出这些点子呢？
How do we develop these kinds of ideas?	我们如何发展这些点子呢？
We call it the Blind Driver Challenge, very exciting.	我们称之为，盲人驾驶员的挑战，
And many, many other robotics projects I want to talk about.	还有许多其他的机器人项目。
First is: Where do we get inspiration?	第一，我们从哪里得到的启发，
And then I think, "Ah this is cool."	然后我想，"这个很棒。"
But just a spark of imagination is not good enough.	仅仅是一丝灵感，还不够。
How do we develop these kinds of ideas?	我们如何发展这些点子呢？
But before we start we set this golden rule.	讨论之前，我们设定一个规矩。
And this is how we develop our ideas.	这是我们如何发展这些点子的。
Well, actually, there are two sides to the story.	实际上，这是有正负两面性的。
These are all the tools that we need.	这些都是我们需要的工具。
There you go. Thank you so much.	就到这里吧。感谢各位听众。
And it's very flat. It's very swampy.	那里地势很平坦，而且有很多沼泽。
It's mostly farmland.	那里的土地大多数用于耕地。
It's downtowns becoming ghost towns.	这意味着商业区变成城市的废墟
The economy is mostly agricultural.	那里的经济主要依靠农业，
So fast-forward to today, and we now live there.	快进到现在，我们现在住在伯蒂县
But this is our front porch. We live there.	这是我们的前门廊，我们住在那里
There is a total vacuum of creative capital in Bertie County.	伯蒂县的创新资本基本上是空的
There isn't a single licensed architect in the whole county.	整个县没有一个真正有执照的设计师
So the first of the three is design for education.	三件事的第一件是设计教育的方法
So this is Mr. Perry. He's the assistant superintendent.	这是佩里先生，他是主管助理
There are thousands of these blue dots all over the county.	整个县有成千上万个这种绿色的圆点
So I want you to meet three of our students.	我想让你们看一看三位我们的同学
She loves agriculture and wants to be a high school teacher.	她热爱农业，希望成为一个高中教师
This is Eric. He plays for the football team.	这是埃里克，他在一支足球队踢球
About two thirds, I would guess, of the world is desertifying.	我猜想，世界有三分之二在荒漠化。
The next day, the land looked like this.	第二天，土地是这个样子。
Well, I have news for you.	现在，我要告诉你们一些新的东西。
We were wrong then, and we are wrong again.	我们那时错了，现在又错了。
We have never understood it.	我们从来都没有搞清楚过。
You have changed the microclimate.	你已经改变了这个地方的微气候。
This picture is a typical seasonal grassland.	这张图是典型的季节性草原。
There is no other alternative left to mankind.	这种方法是人类唯一的选择了。
How were we to do it?	我们应该怎么去实现这个目标？
This is land close to land that we manage in Zimbabwe.	这块地靠近我们在津巴布韦的土地。
Our river is flowing and healthy and clean.	我们的河水流淌，健康而干净。
Well, I would love to -- I mean, this such an interesting and important idea.	这是个有趣和重要的想法。
So I felt that I needed to do two things.	就这样，我认定自己需要做两件事
This is an outreach station conducted at a school for the blind.	这个长远的安置引导着盲童学校
That's an extreme of micropthalmos called enophthalmos.	这一例是极端小眼症叫做眼球内陷
So, eating burgers actually helps.	你看，多吃点儿汉堡包真的有用
So, here's what happens very soon after the onset of sight.	其实是这样的得到视觉不久
Even the shadow on the ball becomes its own object.	甚至球上方的阴影变成独体的物体
Interestingly enough, you give them a few months, and this is what happens.	有趣的是几个月后发生了一些事
And the question is: What underlies this transformation?	问题就是这种转换说明什么？
This simple idea has far reaching implications.	这个貌似简单的道理有深远的影响
Thankfully, there isn't any audio to go with this.	笑声鼓掌幸亏没有音频跟着图像伴奏
Even before the ball gets to a place, the child is already looking there.	在球到达之前孩子已经能看向那边了
Instead of anticipating, the child always follows where the ball has been.	不能预测他只能追着球的运动
The red dots are the children we have not treated.	红色的点是我们治疗过的孩子
Why don't we start there?	我们就从那里开始讲起吧！
I won a full academic scholarship out of high school.	高中毕业的时候赢得了全额奖学金。
So, why don't you tell that story?	那么，你来说说那个故事吧！
That's all I wanted -- just two practices.	我只是想要--两次训练就够了。
"Can I just sit in and see what you do?"	我能就坐在那儿看你都怎么做吗？
So that's how I met Frank.	那就是我怎么遇到弗兰克教练的
And so, here I am -- never lost.	而现在，我在这里——一场没输。
It's my first international meet.	那是我第一次参加国际大赛。
That's the achievement, I think. That's the real achievement.	那也是一种成功，是真正的成功。
You've got to come up and see them.	你们一定要上前好好欣赏一下它们。
You can be eight feet tall. Just take them off."	你有八英尺高呢，把它们拿了吧！"
These are -- do you want to hold that actually?	这些是--你能拿一下吗？
This is a really basic, basic prosthetic limb under here.	下面是非常基础，原始的假肢，
It's like a Barbie foot under this.	就像是芭比娃娃的腿似的。
And this is just a silicon piece of skin.	它们就像是有一层硅质的皮肤，
I mean, they make ears for burn victims.	后来，他们为火灾受害者造了耳朵，
So that's a chunk of what we're looking for.	所以这一块就是我们要研究的
So this small missing chunk here is puzzling.	所以少的这一块很让人莫名其妙
Or about 75,000 jobs.	也相当于7,5000个工作岗位。
Basically, no one's very happy.	基本上，没有人感到很满意。
So let's ask another question.	现在让我们考虑另一个问题。
Turn it from that into some answer in a mathematical form.	求出某个数学形式的答案。
And of course, math is very powerful at doing that.	当然，数学在这一方面非常有用。
Math is a much broader subject than calculating.	数学是比计算更广泛的一门学科。
So what are the issues people bring up with this?	那人们为什么提出这一点呢？
So there's another thing that comes up with basics.	关于基本技能又有另外一个观点。
This one kind of annoys me, I must say.	我要说，这一点很困扰我。
You can do so many more problems.	我们可以解决更多的实际问题。
We want people who can feel the math instinctively.	我们希望学生可以本能地感受数学。
That's what computers allow us to do.	而这恰恰是计算机使这成为可能。
Well, it's damn hard doing the calculations, that's the problem.	问题就在于微积分的计算相当困难。
And of course, it turns into a circle.	当然，多边形变成一个圆。
Now, I was officially freaking out.	这会儿我已经開始抓狂了，
Who knows, maybe she was volunteering for service.	天知道，没准它正想帮我带路呢。
Two days later, my sight started to fail.	两天后，我的视力开始减退。
Lose your sight, though, and it's a whole other story.	然而，失明之后，事情是大不同。
Some of it's helpful. A lot of it's kind of reversed.	其中不乏有用的。也不乏扭曲的。
You've got to figure out what they actually meant.	你得自己搞清楚他们到底什么意思。
Some of it's kind of wrong and not helpful.	其中有些并不那么对且帮不上忙。
I liked it sighted. It was fine.	我当然喜欢能看到它时样子，那不错
Often it's thought that that's an emotion that comes up out of pity.	通常我们认为那些祝福是出于怜悯。
Disability is an equal-opportunity provider.	残疾简直是平权的提供者。
In fact, cars, who needs them?	事实上，车？谁还需要车啊？
If you're blind, you don't drive.	如果你失明了，你也开不了车
And I like to immerse myself in my topics.	我喜欢完全投入我的研究题目。
So, they answered my emails.	所以他们帮我回电子邮件。
This was the worst month of my life.	这是我一生中最糟的一个月。
So, I wasted some time there.	所以我浪费了点时间在这。
And I undertook this for two reasons.	并且我想这样做有两个原因。
But I've become increasingly interested in religion.	但是我已经对宗教越来越有兴趣。
My wife wouldn't kiss me for the last two months.	最后的二个月，我太太不肯亲我。
So, certainly the challenge was there.	所以,当然这是一项挑战。
So, I wanted to follow that rule.	所以,我想要遵循这个律法。
And there were two types of laws that were particularly challenging.	并且还有两种律法，特别挑战。
He was actually an elderly man, mid-70s, just so you know.	他其实是一个年长者,七十多岁
And it's sort of evolved.	撰写圣经可以说是一种演进过程，
I went to the creationists' museum.	我去了关于特创论者的博物馆。
They really did a fantastic job.	他们真的完成了一个很棒的工作。
And I'm trying to start it as a movement.	然而我尝试把虔敬，变成一种风潮。
I wanted it to be about religion in America.	而是体验美国宗教的经验。
Thank you. Bless you, bless you.	谢谢你。祝福你,祝福你。
That's how they printed them in the old Bibles.	在旧圣经中被印成红字的。
Also, thou shalt not disregard the irrational.	还有,诸位不能漠视无理的事。
You're just picking and choosing."	你只是选自己喜欢的去做。"
I've had some great meals at cafeterias.	我在自助餐厅有吃得很开心的经验。
And I thought I'd end with just a couple more.	然而结束前我想我在说几件事。
So we've forgotten to invent new interfaces.	导致我们忘记了要去创造新的界面。
They don't understand real world space.	它们不能理解现实世界的空间。
There you are, swinging the sun around.	再继续，可以把太阳旋转一周，
And we built up a series of tools like this.	我们还做了类似的一系列工具，
So here we have a bunch of stuff, some images.	这里我们有一堆东西，一些图像。
And you can come back out through the scary orangutan.	从这个可怕的猩猩身上回来，
Let's do something a little more difficult.	现在我们做些有点难度的东西。
Here, we have a whole bunch of disparate images.	这里我们有一大堆分散开的图像，
We can fly around them.	我们可以在它们中间穿梭。
You have to be able to navigate in 3D.	你必须要能在三维空间导航。
So that's a different way to look at stuff.	这又是另一个看东西的不同的方式。
So, from there to the world of real work.	现在，我们演示一些实用的系统。
So here's a familiar place.	这里有一个我们熟悉的地方，
And we'll bring this back here for a second.	我们把它拖过来一点看看。
Maybe select a little bit of that.	要不我们挑一点东西出来，
Well, that doesn't really cut it anymore.	显然，这已经不那么好使了。
And we might want to look at these various images.	现在我们来看看这些不同的图像，
We might want to ask for some help.	这个过程中可能会要人帮一下忙。
These are unrelated machines, right?	这些机器都是不相关的，你要知道。
So let me get some of these out of the way.	那么我现在把这些东西挪开一点。
Let me see if I can help us find the circuit board.	让我看看是否能帮助找到电路板。
So we have a large number of movies stuck inside here.	所以这里面有一大堆电影资料。
And let's just pick out a few elements.	现在我们从里面挑出一些素材。
We can zip through them as a possibility.	我们可以很快地浏览过去，
The gloves go away in a matter of months or years.	在几个月或几年之后就不用手套了。
John, thank you for making science-fiction real.	约翰，非常感谢你把科幻做成真实。
And she quickly said, "It's too much.	她很快意识到，"这太多了。
If only there was a way to automate this."	除非有个自动化的方式来整理。"
And it's been used most famously in Haiti in the aftermath of the earthquake.	最著名的是它被运用在震后的海地。
That's the second half of cognitive surplus.	接下来说到认知盈余的另一半。
We still like to consume, of course.	当然，我们还是喜欢消费。
And that source is design for generosity.	那资源是为了共享所设计的。
The white group there is the control group; they change nothing.	白色的一组是对照组，不做变化。
And you can see immediately what happened, right?	你看到了立马的变化，是吧。
The fine broke the culture of the daycare center.	罚金打破了日托中心的规律。
Both of these rely on cognitive surplus.	它们两者都依赖认知盈余。
It's value created by the participants for each other.	它的价值产生于参与者之间的互动。
We've got a choice before us.	我们现在正面临一个选择。
Another half an hour and we would have won."	再比那么半个小时我们可就赢了。"
And then an enormous accident took place.	然后，一个巨大的意外发生了。
And we won this World Cup in 1983.	于是我们在1983年赢得了世界杯
But there was another big date.	不久，另一个大日子降临了
1983 was when we won the World Cup.	1983年是我们赢得世界杯的年份
And so we allowed multinationals into India.	于是我们允许跨国公司进入印度
And then something very dramatic happened.	然后特别戏剧化的事发生了
Six weeks, city versus city.	赛程六周，是城市与城市之间的比赛
It was never promoted, it was never sold -- it was organized.	它从没被当成商品市场化过。
So, it was a different India.	所以，这是一个崭新的印度
The new owners of Indian cricket were not the old princes.	印度板球的新老板不是旧式的王侯
And so he said, "I've got to reach on date X."	于是他回答，"我必须在X号赶到"
Never would India have thought on this scale before.	印度原来从未想过会玩这么大
There is cricket and the movies.	板球和印度电影始终都存在
Because we had this auction, you see.	他们这么说是因为我们有拍卖会
Shane Warne sold for 450,000 dollars.	[不清楚]价值450000美元
Could you have imagined that day would come?	你能想象这种日子真的来临了吗？
Move a whole tournament to South Africa in three weeks.	在比赛前三周开始启程到南非去
And that felt good, you know?	你要知道，这种感觉真是很好
This is what statisticians technically call a damn fine bet.	统计学家们称之为"完美赌局"
It's not interesting because it's so common.	这条新闻非常无趣因为它太常见了
Drownings and asthma deaths don't get much coverage.	因为对溺水、哮喘报道的不多
Why in the world would anybody ever play the lottery?	究竟为什么还有人买彩票呢？
Well, Bernoulli tells us it is.	那么按照Bernoulli的逻辑
And most people say, "OK, I'll play."	而且大多数人都会说"嗯，我要买"
When you arrive at the theater, you discover that somewhere along the way you've lost the ticket.	当你到达剧场的时候发现票丢了
Would you spend your remaining money on replacing it?	你会花剩下的钱再去买一张么？
When you arrive you discover you've lost one of them.	到达剧场的时候发现丢了一张
Would you spend your remaining 20 dollars on a ticket?	你会不会拿剩下的20美元去买票？
Well, of course, I went to the theater to see the play.	当然会！我去剧院就是要看戏的。
What does the loss of 20 dollars along the way have to do?	跟我在路上丢没丢20美元没关系
In both cases, it was a piece of paper.	在两种情况下，这个东西都是一张纸
The comparison changes how we evaluate him.	笑声比较改变了我们对他的看法
What's hard in our decision-making is when these two rules conflict.	当这两条规则相互冲突时，困难来了
Well, by and large people are enormously impatient.	多数情况下，人们很缺乏耐心
What makes this dynamic inconsistency happen?	是什么让决策不一致了呢？
Comparison. Troubling comparison. Let me show you.	比较！麻烦的比较。我来给大家解释
Here are the results of what I just showed you.	这就是我刚刚给大家看的结果
And I want you to see that two things are true.	现在我想让你看到，两样东西是真的
Watch what happens when we drop some out.	看看去掉几个图形时发生了什么
Is terror the right response?	你觉得恐惧应该是正常的反应吗？
People get up in the morning; they don't care about poverty.	人们早上起来；他们不关心贫穷
That's what you think it is. All right?	但这是你认为的价值，对吗？
It's not because she is stupid or he is stupid.	这并不是因为他的脑子有问题
And as a result, many people look at economists as stupid people.	结果很多人觉得经济学家更愚蠢
I would disagree that people know they're not going to win.	我不同意那些人知道自己肯定会输
DG: For you or for them?	笑声建议是给你还是给他们？
But, reliable Dutchman" -- -- "Fantastic!"	但是，可靠的荷兰人~好极了！
And I really struggled with this one.	然后我确确实实很努力地去创作。
So here's what it says in my explanation at the bottom left.	所以在左下角就是我的解释
Silas usually has a better touch with his choice of quotations.	塞拉斯通常会较好选择引用语。
This one generates no imagery at all."	而这个并没有营造出任何画面感。"
Don't be trendy if you want to be serious.	如果你想要认真就不要赶时尚。
And that too is a relatively new idea.	那也是一个比较新的想法。
Same cheap trick in the upper left-hand corner.	在左上角使用了同样的小把戏。
And that idea stuck in my head.	而且那种想法停留在我的脑中。
I mean, you see it every day, right? I mean, come on.	你每天都会看到它，对吧？拜托。
Jews often have an unpleasant sweetish odor.	犹太人通常有种带甜味的体味。
It turns out that this score is actually meaningful.	这个度数事实上非常有意义。
And he sort of, he showed a handful of figurines.	他就拿出几个雕像给他们看
She's not even my real mum.	她甚至都不是我的亲生妈妈
My mum wanted to, couldn't afford it.	我妈妈想去但是付不起路费
I have this feeling I'd be happy there.	我预感到我在那里会很快乐的
You're just too blind to see it now.	只不过你现在意识不到而已
And how come you ain't got a job anyway?	为什么你连份工作都找不到？
Marcus: You're a rapper, am I right?	你是说唱歌手？我说的对吗？
Boy: Oh, Marcus, you know what I mean.	马库斯，你知道我的意思的
Epuisé -- tired, exhausted, fed up.	枯竭——疲惫，精疲力竭，厌烦了
D1: My movies, they are OK, fine.	我的电影，他们还好，还不错
And that was something that I went through, you know, and I'm still going through.	是我体验过、并且还在体验着的情感
C: Success, the change is only coming through the barrel of the gun.	成功，变革唯有通过枪杆子才能实现
Soldiers: Rain come, sun come, soldier man dey go.	雨落，日出，战士出生入死
I say rain come, sun come, soldier man dey go.	雨落，日出，战士出生入死
There was no food, just little rice.	没有食物，只有一点点稻米
The injection made us not to have mind.	我们接受注射之后神志不清
Committee Chairman: Do you remember January 6th, 1999?	你还记得1999年1月6日吗？
You know what you are? A crocodile.	你知道自己是什么吗？鳄鱼
Troop, pay your last honor. Salute.	军队，最后一次致敬。敬礼
That is what you are here for, no?	这就是你来这里的原因，不是吗？
Ask my sister, she is the witch, she knows everything.	我的妹妹，她是个巫女，她无所不知
You too are a retired General, not so?	你也是一个退役的将军，对吗？
Lack of education was their way to control power.	剥夺教育是他们掌控权利的方式
Why? Because you want our diamond.	为什么?因为你们想要我们的钻石
I met psychosocial workers who worked with them.	我遇到帮助他们的心理医生
The book starts like this. This is the cover.	这书是这样开头的。这是封面。
Or, we can scroll through the pages at the bottom.	或者我们可以滚动到底部页面
This photo, you can you can even see on an interactive map.	在这幅图片，你能看到交互式地图。
This one shows the wind potential all around the United States.	这展示了美国各地的风能潜力图。
This is one of my favorites.	这是我最喜欢的交互之一。
And this whole book, it doesn't just run on the iPad.	这全书不只是在iPad上运行。
It also runs on the iPhone.	它也可以在iPhone上运行。
Is this something that other people can do?	其它人也可以做到这个吗？
And I know the road was extremely difficult.	我知道，这一路走来异常艰难。
I've never really gone out looking for work.	我从来没有自己去找过工作，
But I couldn't do anything else.	但其他的我什么都做不了。
For me, every day is a new thing.	对我来说，每一天都是全新的，
I discard it.	我会把预测或者计划丢到一边去。
They're still talking about it.	人们直到现在都还对此议论纷纷。
He's been a cheerleader for quite a long time.	他一直都像个拉拉队队长似的。
It's a richer experience.	是更加丰富更有意义的经历。
Anyway, he's that kind of patron.	不论如何，他就是那种顾客。
It's not his money, of course.	当然，那不是他的钱就是了。
That was the real surprise of Bilbao.	那我毕尔巴鄂的真正惊喜所在。
Blah, blah, blah and all that stuff.	这个，那个，全是这类话。
I said to my team, "Let's get out of here."	告诉我的人，"咱们撤吧。"
"You're not going to have dinner at all?"	"你们难道也不去晚餐了吗？"
Are you going to talk about me or you?	你是想说我还是你自己啊？
And I'd like to start at the very beginning.	我希望从最开始的时候讲起
Think back when you were just a kid.	回想一下你还是个孩子的时候
And let me tell you why I have that perspective.	让我来解释一下其中的原因
And of course, the more developed the country, the bigger these mountains.	当然，国家越发展这个数量就越多
It's mostly many types of plastics and many types of metals.	主要是各种塑料和金属原料
And we finally figured out how to do it.	最终我们找到了分类的方法
And they get to make more sustainable products.	他们可以生产更可持续性的产品
We then use optical sorting to color sort this material.	我们随后用光学分类进行颜色归类
And we chop those strands into what are called pellets.	然后把其砍断变成我们所说的颗粒
And this becomes the currency of the plastics industry.	这就变成了塑料行业中的货币
This is the same material that you would get from oil.	这种原料和用石油制造的完全一样
I think everybody should do it -- think that you've got three wishes.	我觉得每个人都可以学学我这么做
And I think, quite frankly, that's where I started.	同时也是我一切灵感的源泉
I became very interested in the landscape as a Canadian.	还在加拿大时，我就迷上了
Totally transformed by man.	完全被人类力量所改造的景观
And that became the baseline of what I was doing.	这成为了我之后作品的出发点
And these ages of man are still at work today.	尽管这些时代留下的痕迹依旧保存着
But we've become totally disconnected from them.	但我们已经无法从这些痕迹之中
I want a house, and I want a car.	只有有房有车的生活才叫好生活
So originally I was going to go to India.	因此我想去印度看看这一切
So coal itself is probably one of the largest problems.	所以煤矿资源本身也是一个重大问题
There were no parks; there were no green spaces.	这里没有公园，也没有绿地
Very high-density living on the side of a hill.	只有密密麻麻的居民楼耸立在山丘上
Build our science, civilized and advanced idea of marriage and giving birth."	树立科学、文明、进步的婚育观念
So they bring them in from the country and put them up in the dorms.	员工们从全国各地的乡村挤到这里
There's two factories of this scale in the same town.	公司有两个厂区，位于同一地区
They sit down; they have about 20 minutes.	他们只有二十分钟的进餐时间
They won't move. They're not negotiating.	他们拒绝搬迁，也拒绝妥协
This is a five-level bridge in Shanghai.	这是上海的一座五层高架桥
And the density is quite incredible.	照片中大家可以看到这里的居住密度
And it was just lightning fast; the way she was working was almost unbelievable.	她的操作速度之快完全令人难以想象
Here's something that's far more labor-intensive, which is the making of shoes.	这是一间制鞋工厂劳动力更加密集
This floor has about 1,500 workers on this floor.	这里大约有一千五百名工人
And they don't want to let me in.	而且他们也不希望我进去拍照
And this next shot here is one of the lunchrooms.	接下来一张照片是一间食堂
They're trying to get all the valued metals out of those components.	从中提取有价值的金属原料
I want to dedicate my wishes to my two girls.	我想将我的心愿献给我的两个女儿
And it just started about 14 months ago.	目前每月访问量已接近五十万人
And hopefully inspire people to go to that website.	并希望人们能够带着问题打开网站
But the other thing that I thought would be fantastic was to create these -- call them "prize targets."	按照我的想法活动最终可以评选出
So I'm looking, really, for a mentor, because I just had my birthday.	当然，我非常需要有人来帮帮我
Now I'm seeing lots of smirks out there.	我看到在座的很多开始傻笑，
We make them again and again.	我们总是在犯同样的错误。
And they're actually immune to lots of evidence.	而且对很多证据视而不见。
We create financial markets that are super complex.	我们创造出了超级复杂的金融市场，
We create mortgage terms that we can't actually deal with.	和自己都不能应付的房屋贷款条款，
How can we tell the difference between possibility one and possibility two?	我们如何分辨这两种可能的不同呢？
So she's the perfect test case.	所以她应该是比较合适的实验对象。
And so this is the kind of thing we decided to do.	这些都是我们想探讨的问题。
We make a lot of mistakes in a lot of different contexts.	我们在不同的领域会犯不同的错误。
So now we faced, you know, a little bit of a problem here.	所以我们在这儿碰到一点麻烦，
Hands it over, and then gets some food.	她交出代币，然后就拿到一些食物。
We just allowed them to pick this up on their own.	我们只是放手让他们自己做选择。
Do the monkeys do anything like this?	看看猴子们是否做了这些事情呢？
The salesmen were students from my lab.	这两位是我实验室里的学生。
She's waiting for the market to open a little impatiently.	她有点不耐烦的等着市场开张。
She could teach our financial advisers a few things or two.	她可以给我们的财务学教授上课了。
Well, we already saw anecdotally a couple of signs that they might.	其实我们也观察到一些现象。
Donate it, take it, and so on.	捐出去，花掉，怎么都行。
Most people actually go with the play-it-safe option.	大部分的人会选择不冒险的选项。
You might say, eh, that's not really irrational.	各位也许觉得这样选没错啊，
People are a little risk-averse. So what?	人是风险趋避者，有问题吗？
Now you can buy double to stuff you were going to get before.	你刚刚想买的物品可以多买一倍。
Think about how you'd feel sticking it in your wallet.	想想这笔钱在皮夹里的感觉。
And I'm seeing a lot of furrowed brows out there.	我看到很多人眉头紧缩哦。
We really hate it when we have to lose out on some money.	我们会极度不愿意失去任何金钱。
But they're going to give the monkeys bonuses.	但是这2位会给猴子们一些红利。
All the time, he adds one, to give the monkeys two.	从头到尾，他会多给猴子1粒葡萄。
And so we ran a second version of this.	于是我们就做了第二个版本的实验。
So they look like they're starting out with a big amount.	所以他们一开始就拿出较多的葡萄。
the guy on the right is the risky loss.	右边这位提供有风险的损失量。
A little bad for monkey investors.	请猴子来当投资客不太好。
What do we know about other old strategies like this?	我们对这类的对策了解多少？
We're just built differently.	但人与人之间存在着差异性。
I'm supposed to be up here telling you the good news.	我这里是有一些好消息告诉各位。
I didn't have to try to flap my wings.	我不需要把手当翅膀拍动来飞。
I don't have to rely on my own near-sightedness.	不需要依赖我这双大近视的眼睛。
That's one billion people in the world live in slums.	相当于全球有10亿人住在贫民窟
They're the materials of the last century.	它们是上个世纪最伟大的材料
This is a U.S. statistic about the impact of greenhouse gases.	这是关于温室气体效应在美国的统计
The last thing we want to do is cut down trees.	砍伐树木是我们最不愿做的事
That's the equivalent of about 900 cars removed from the road in one year.	这相当于一年从路上少了900辆车
The engineering is, truthfully, the easy part of this.	实话说，工程方面是简单的部分
It's really just the structure that we're talking about.	这仅是我们正在讨论的结构
Buildings are starting to go up around the world.	木材建筑整正开始在世界各地建起
And I believe the race is ultimately on.	我相信这个比赛最终开始了
Compassion: what does it look like?	同情心。同情心看起来是什么样的？
For when one is honored, all are honored.	就是一个人光荣，所有人都光荣。
Now, it was not always wonderful at that table.	现在，那个饭桌并不总是美好的。
It was Christmas, and at our family, oh, what a morning.	那是圣诞节，在我们家的一个早晨，
We are sisters and brothers united together.	我们兄弟姐妹们心心相连。
Because I had someone dear to me snatched away.	因为我的亲人被死神带走了。
I have to tangibilitate the Gospel."	我必须说出福音书的真实性。"
Compassion takes on a corporate dynamic.	同情心呈现出一种全体的动态。
We would decide to establish this charter of compassion.	我们会决定建立起同情心的新篇章。
Unusual things are beginning to happen.	不寻常的东西已经开始发生。
And so I want to close with a little song.	所以我想以一首歌来结尾。
This isn't my house. It is the people's house."	这不是我的房子。这是人民的房子
Bomb blast curtains covered my windows.	窗户前装着厚厚的防爆窗帘
But we've centralized these bureaucracies.	但当我们集中化这样的官僚主义
What comes the day after the Arab Spring?	"阿拉伯之春"之后又会发生什么？
But social media do teach us something.	但社交媒体确实给我们很大的启示
That is a nice sideline of open government.	这是对于开放政府是个不错的副业
So a lot of these innovations are local.	所以很多创新者都是本地的
"There is a hero in all of us," is their slogan.	他们的口号是"我们身边就有英雄"
But it's not limited to the local.	但对于地区来说并没有受到限制
The first phase is in getting better information in.	第一阶段是更高效的收集民意
We don't have words, really, to describe it yet.	我们还没有伟大的作品来描述它。
Now we're moving onto Washington, D.C.	现在，我们在首都华盛顿开展新项目
The Mall is a symbol of American democracy.	美国国家广场是美利坚民主的象征
It's a space where citizens can voice their discontent and show their power.	公民可以在那里抒发不满彰显力量
It's a place where pivotal moments in American history have taken place.	它也见证了美国历史上无数关键事件
It may just be a place for civic commiseration.	它是一个让民众抒发怜悯之情的地方
And could the museum be an agent of cultural diplomacy?	能否让博物馆变成文化大使？
It would have the global reach of the World Economic Forum.	它甚至可以连接到世界经济论坛
It would have the informality of the town square.	它可以不拘于城镇广场的形式
It's already taken up by landscape and by sculptures.	那儿早已坐落了很多地标和雕像
How could it become iconic?	怎么样才能让它变成标志性建筑？
It's a giant airbag.	我们设想它为一个巨大的气囊
And it's inflated twice a year for one month at a time.	每年为它充气两次，每次充一个月
This is the view from the inside.	这是从内部看出去的视觉效果
It had to be approved by actually two agencies.	实际上，我们得获得两个部门的许可
And one is there to preserve the dignity and sanctity of the Mall.	一个部门要保护博物馆的庄严、肃穆
That's the Pantheon next to it.	这是"气泡"旁边的英雄纪念堂
And so we argued it on the merits of being a dome.	于是我们称它的实质是一个圆顶
We couldn't leave any traces behind.	我们不能留有任何可追溯回去的线索
So we strained it from the edges, and we held it by cables.	我们从周边开始建模用电缆拉住它
And then it's inflated with this low-pressure air.	之后，就开始充气用低压气体填充
And then it was really easy all the way through.	之后的事情就进行的非常顺利
And I'm just going to zip through these slides.	让我来滚动播放这些幻灯片
And this is the space in action.	这是这部分气体动起来的样子
The bubble is an anti-monument.	这个气泡本身作为反对纪念的象征
So I have branded myself as a war child.	我将自己称作一名战地儿童
I saw my aunt in rape when I was only five.	五岁那一年，我看到我姨妈被强奸
And up to now, me and my father were detached and I still have issues with him.	到现在，我跟我父亲都还是隔离居住
And that made me call myself a war child.	所以我才叫自己是战时儿童
In the burning jungle, and the desert plain.	在烧焦的森林，在荒无人烟的沙漠
Sometimes you gotta lose to win.	有时候，你需要失去才能取胜
Run, duck, play dead and hide.	我得准备着逃跑、躲避、装死或隐匿
I've seen my people die like flies.	我亲眼看到我的同胞在战争中死去
Guns barking like lightning and thunder.	枪声如闪电惊雷一般在我的耳边响起
No sit or stop, as I reach for the top I'm fully dedicated like a patriotic cop.	不等待、不停止如警察一般，
First time I'm feeling like a human being.	我还是体会到作为人的感觉
That's my story shared in the form of a lesson.	这就是我的故事，我的人生读本
Where I'm losing so that I could win the battle that I'm fighting now.	我在失去，也唯有如此我才能得胜
And I said, "No stop until we get it."	我说，"不达到目标不放弃"
I don't know how they did it.	我也不知道他们是怎么做到的
And so, the importance of education to me is what I'm willing to die for.	我愿意为之贡献我的一切的就是教育
For so many years we have fed on aid.	我的国家变成了很羸弱的国家
They only get the food that drops from the sky, from the U.N.	他们只懂得来自联合国的粮食救济
Give us tools. Give the farmers tools.	请给我们工具，给我们农具
And I said "I'm going to put it in practice."	我说，"我们要将此付诸实践。"
Go save a life of a child.	是上帝为我这孩子带来了生命
My client was a guy named Will.	我的客户是一个叫威尔的男孩。
What's happened to cause this phenomenon?	发生了什么，导致这种现象呢？
So 25 years ago, they focused on chapter four.	所以25年前，他们关注第四章。
That's the first thing I've learned.	这是我所学到的第一件事。
What we're talking about today is just as complicated.	我们今天讨论的事很复杂。
What we're talking about today is also rocket science.	我们今天在讨论的也是火箭科学。
I won't talk today about reforming the legal system.	我今天不会讨论关于司法制度改革。
And even if that happens, it's not yet too late.	即使发生这种情况，它还不算太晚。
Now what do all of these things have in common?	所有这些事情有什么共同点？
What all of these things have in common is that they cost money.	这些事情的共同点是他们需要花钱。
And I said to him, "I know the story.	我对他说，"我知道这个故事。
But three of those crimes are preventable.	但其中三起犯罪都是可以预防的。
Now, this was actually not that upsetting to me.	其实，我并没有受到太大的打击。
Which made me very suspicious.	这曾经使我感到十分可疑。
Which was comforting, but troubling.	这令我感到安慰但很郁闷。
And this meant that I was a Libra?	然后现在弄了半天我是天秤座的？
Well, I was just on the edge of my seat.	笑声我当时坐在椅子的边缘
I'm just so used to that story.	只是我已经习惯了这个故事
Because I wasn't exactly sure how I felt about that question.	我不是很确定我对这个问题的感觉
What would it be like to be improving the human lot?	怎样才算改善全人类的生活?
It's asking people, what do they want.	它问人们,他们想要什么。
It's not nearly as important as health.	金钱跟健康相比也是微不足道的。
These seem to be natural human aspirations.	这些都是人类天生的渴望。
It's like quality and quantity of life in nations.	象征着各个国家的生命质量和数量。
And the yellow dot there you see, is the global average.	那个黄点，是全球的平均值。
And they have that Latin vibe, don't they.	而他们也有着那拉丁的韵律,对吧，
It's half a human lifetime away.	这只是一个人寿命的一半。
That is changing our business.	这意味着我们必须改变做事方式，
And why do I hear that?	为什么我们要听到这些呢?
That's how you create a collective goal.	这是设立一个共同目标的方法。
Keep building them.	你要不断的建设和维护这些关系。
They don't have any carbon content.	因为它们没有任何碳含量。
Pave them with the five ways.	用这五个行动来走向幸福吧。
Here at TED there are great opportunities.	在TED这就就有很多很好的机会。
For one thing, he's almost seven feet tall.	一方面，他有将近七英尺高。
But that's not the most terrifying thing about him.	但这还不是最让人觉得恐怖的。
They're controlled by different parts of the brain.	它们是由大脑的不同部分控制的。
And it talks about the back story of something like a t-shirt.	该书谈的是诸如T恤衫的幕后故事。
This guy was back on his feet immediately.	不一会儿，这个人就能站起来了。
How do we know where we're going?	我们怎么知道我们正前往何处？
You might add little symbols along the way.	你也许会在沿路添加些小符号。
It was designed by an engineering draftsman.	而是由一名工程制图员设计的。
But this is all for the clarity of the public tube map.	但这都是为了公交地铁图的明确性
They were not geographically distorted.	它们没有进行地理上的扭曲
Any gaps that appeared in the outskirts were filled again.	郊区出现的空档再次被填满
The reactions I got were tremendous. It was really good to see.	我得到的回应是巨大的，这太好了
I heard the word "carcinoma."	我得知了一个词"恶性肿瘤"
That day, I learned what fear was.	那一天，我学会了什么是恐惧
So I dried my tears, and I declared to the world at large ...	所以我擦干泪水然后我向世界宣告
All I wanted to do was curl up and weep.	我想做的只有蜷缩起来哭泣
It was excruciatingly painful, but I did it.	这一过程非常痛苦，但是我完成了
Yes, cancer has just been one page in my life.	是的，癌症只成为我生命中的一页
Mine was that of Durga, Durga the fearless one.	我的意象是杜尔迦杜尔迦无畏的女神
Nobody really did anything with it, pretty much.	几乎没有什么人在真正用它
I wrote the code and put it out there.	我完成了代码并发布出来。
Well, it was basically frustration.	这是一个充满挫败感的过程
They had all sorts of different data formats, all sorts, all kinds of documentation systems.	数据格式各不相同文件系统各不相同
In fact, on all these discs there were documents.	事实上，这些磁盘里全是文件
Now, I want you to put your data on the web.	现在我想让你把你的数据放在网上
He put up a slide a little bit like this.	他展示了一个类似的幻灯片
This person was born in Berlin; Berlin is in Germany.	这个人出生在柏林，柏林在德国
So, I can go ahead and look that thing up.	所以，我可以直接去找那件事
And the exciting thing is it's starting to grow.	令人兴奋的事情是它正在成长
This is just the grassroots stuff again, OK?	这又是一个草根做的事情，对吗？
So it is with data. I could talk about all kinds of data.	说到数据，我能说出各种各样的数据
That's important. Why is it important?	这非常重要，难道不是吗？
OK, we have to ask for raw data now.	好，现在我们不得不要求原始数据了
And I'm going to ask you to practice that, OK?	我要请你们练习一下，好吗？
And it's not just America. It's all over the world.	这不仅仅存在于美国，全世界都一样
So I'm just going to mention a few other thoughts on data.	我还想再谈谈关于数据的其他想法
In fact, data is about our lives.	事实上，数据关乎我们的生活
We need to do that with linked data.	我们需要通过关联数据做这件事
I put that up on there. Hey, you know what?	我把它标注在那里。嗨，你知道吗
You do your bit. Everybody else does theirs.	你做一些，每个人都做一些
What does the world want to do together?	这个世界要一起做些什么？
We've got to decide a process by which we decide.	我们要给既定的目标做出计划
But there's still a lot of unfinished business.	但仍然，还有很多未完成的事业。
And then we've got to connect with the big crowd.	接着，我们要把广大群众结合起来
Jamie Drummond: Fewer children every day.	是指每天有5000名孩童免于死亡
Five thousand fewer children dying every day.	每天将有5000名孩童免于死亡
What does the brand stand for in your head?	在你心中维珍品牌代表的是什么呢？
But obviously, there wasn't a lot I could do about it.	但很明显，除此以外我也做不了什么
And, OK, so stop there. This was -- you had some award I think?	好的，这张。我猜这是什么奖吧？
But somehow, she must have had a forgetful memory, I think.	不过她一定记性不太好，我觉得
And when you land, you'll be able to go back into this giant eye.	着陆时，你又会回到这只巨眼中
But, I personally found it wonderful.	但，就我个人而言，我很欣赏
And then finally, just thought, there's a better way.	终于想到，还有一个更好的方法
How much was the PR value part of this?	这其中的公关成分有多大呢？
And it was one of the reasons I left school when I was 15 years old.	也许是因为这个我15岁就辍学了
And so the board meetings have been fascinating.	所以董事会会议还是挺令人向往的
Here's a net in the sea, and the fish have been pulled from the sea into this net.	海里有一张网把鱼从海里捞出来
And making us go on wonderful, long bike rides.	她还让我们骑上自行车去很远的地方
And we were never allowed to watch television and the like.	她从来不让我们看电视什么的
So I don't think you can mollycoddle your kids too much really.	我觉得最好还是不要太娇宠孩子了
Which of those happened first?	那么，上面两个哪一个最先发生？
So, we put it back to VD and promptly got arrested.	所以，我们冠之以老叫法就被捕了
And so I said, "Would you mind coming to the court?"	我问"你能来法庭为我作证吗？"
And I said, "Yes, definitely. Please."	我说"那就太好了--麻烦了…"
There was a nasty biography written about you by someone.	有人写过一本丑化你的传记
I mean, do you think about life balance?	你是怎么保持工作生活平衡的？
You know, if I can make a difference, I hope to be able to make a difference.	为世界做点贡献我想为世界做点贡献
And you know they're going to make a hell of a difference to the world.	要真那样，整个世界可就遭殃了
So I just switched on in the train, loudly.	还在火车上，我调大了音量。
I think you should study in a school of art.	我觉得，你应该在艺术学校里学习，
You just quit school and come there."	你直接退了学去那儿吧。"
It is that we need we need to be open and fine-tuned.	只要我们足够思想开明并具备潜质。
It's just a trace of being in this body.	它是寄居于这个身体的一道痕迹。
So it's almost like fossils for the future.	简直就像献给未来的化石。
This is the trace of fire, this is the trace of sun.	这是火的痕迹，这是太阳的。
So like let's say even a simple act.	就像，比如说，一项简单的行为中。
He would say, "For the greater good."	他会说，"为了更大的利益。"
And context, what is really context?	那么情景呢，情景是什么？
You know, I could just show you this little piece of paper.	我们来看一下这张小纸片就知道了。
It's just created by the mind.	意义什么的只存在于我们的脑袋里。
This is how we've been taught in school.	这就是我们在学校里学到的。
It's just captured through from the lamp.	这是从台灯那儿捕捉到的。
This is the work I made out of that material.	这是我对那个素材的创作。
Will you help me to make this sculpture?"	你能帮我做这个雕塑吗？"
They said, "Of course.	他们说，"当然可以了。"
Please come for the show."	你们来看看我的演示吧。"
It's just all about questioning the preconceptions.	这只是一个关于先入为主的问题。
So they inhaled it, but they are not aware of it.	他们呼吸着它，却浑然不觉。
And I was like, "What do you mean?"	然后我就说，"什么意思啊？"
But she said, "No. Still, I don't like it.	但是她说，"不，我还是不喜欢他。
I said, "No, mom. It can't be.	我说，"不行，老妈，不行的。
So, I did this work for her.	所以我为她制作了这件作品。
So, the same sculpture after a few days.	所以，同一桌雕塑，几天之后，
This gave me a greater faith.	但他给了我一个更大的启发。
Then I thought, okay, let me sculpt that.	然后我想，好吧，让我把他雕出来。
I thought, "Oh, good. Work is finished."	我想，"哦，好的，完成了。
Pick a percentage in your own mind.	你们可以心中默想一个数据。
Again, please pick a percentage.	一样，请大家心中默想一个数据。
Turns out to be a little bit higher.	结果比上一个答案要略高一点，
A couple of different reasons come to mind.	一系列理由从我的脑海中浮现，
A second reason has to do with peer pressure.	第二个原因是来自于同行的压力。
He's clearly been in a cave for the last 20,000 years.	他已经在山顶洞里住了两万年，
Which brings me to my second point.	这就牵连到我的第二个观点。
Think of France and the current debate about immigration.	想想目前法国针对移民的议题。
These pieces date back from the '40s to the late '50s.	这些成品来自四十年代到五十年代末
They've all moved back to the rural area where they came from.	他们都搬回了最初过来的农村地区
This is the community that I originally showed you the slide of.	这是我一开始向你们展示的社区
Who studied some physics in university?	有谁在大学里学习过物理学？
Pretty good. And at school?	哦，很好。有谁在高中学过？
Now, who remembers Heisenberg's uncertainty principle?	现在，谁记得海森堡的不确定原理？
Getting a little more technical now.	现在说一些有点技术性的东西。
But then you lose control of it.	但是那时你就失去了对它的控制。
It has three different kinds of strings.	绞弦琴有三种不同的琴弦。
Luckily, all of this changed a couple of centuries later.	然后几个世纪后，绞弦琴有所改变，
And this kind of hurdy-gurdy takes anywhere from three to five years [to order and receive it].	一件绞弦琴需要一位匠人用
So without further ado, would you like to hear it?	闲话不多说，你们想听么？
A glove or a catcher's mitt is a condom.	"捕手的手套"指的是安全套
It's sexist. It's heterosexist.	它带有性别歧视和性取向歧视。
It's competitive. It's goal-directed.	它充满了竞争和太具有目的性。
So we need a new model.	所以我们需要一个新的模式
You play baseball when it's baseball season and when there's a game on the schedule.	通常是在赛季有赛程安排才能打
Somebody's trying to defend people moving into the field.	总有人试图阻止其他人往球场内移动
You just take your position and play the game.	你就站到自己的位置开始比赛就行
Well, you have pizza when you're hungry for pizza.	当你饿了想吃披萨的时候就吃
"How do you feel about pepperoni?"	"你觉得意式辣香肠披萨如何？"
"Or maybe something a little more adventurous?"	"或者也许这次吃点新鲜的？"
You can't hit the ball and run to right field.	你不能击了球然后想右边跑
There are a million different kinds of pizza.	这里有上百万种不同的披萨
And lastly, what's the expected outcome of baseball?	最后，棒球比赛的期望的结果是什么
And we get to decide when we feel satisfied.	而且我们可以自己决定何时感到满足
And those young people become older people.	而那些年轻人又变成老一辈
But under the pizza model, they're questions.	但是在披萨饼模式中都是问题
You're up all night. You're walking till dawn.	你会整晚都睡不着。你会一直走黎明
Simple. Romantic love is very simple.	简单，爱情就是那么简单。
The other main characteristic is motivation.	爱情另外一个主要的特征是动机。
But my most important question was always the same.	但最重要的问题始终是一个
I don't work with people in any kind of traumatic situation.	我没法治愈人们心灵的创伤
I would say, "Would you die for him or her?"	"你会为这个人去死吗？"
And indeed, that's exactly what happens.	而这正是人们看到爱人照片时的反应
People live for love. They kill for love. They die for love.	人们为爱而生，为爱而杀，为爱而死
They came home with 60 to 80 percent of the evening meal.	她们带着60-80%的晚餐回到家
The double income family was the standard.	双人收入的家庭才是标准家庭
Then, women's worst invention was the plow.	然而，女性最差的发明就是犁
And, indeed, they're becoming a very powerful force.	然而，女性正在成为一股强大的力量
And I think that the television is like the global campfire.	我认为电视就像一个全球的篝火晚会
Today 54 percent of people who are writers in America are women.	如今在美国54%的作家都是女性
They've got incredible people skills, negotiating skills.	女人拥有非凡的人际技巧和谈判技巧
We now know the brain circuitry of imagination, of long-term planning.	想象力和长远计划形成的大脑路线
When the -- and there's also many more male idiots in the world.	但是，世界上的白痴也是男性偏多的
"Oh, well -- men are more adulterous!"	"显然啊，男性就是比较花心！"
We are seeing the rise of female sexual expression.	女性有了更多对性的表达和诉求
We're also seeing a rise of romantic love.	我们也看到了人们对浪漫爱情的追求
They can go together, by the way.	顺便说一下，它们是可以同时存在的
I think the happiness we find, we make.	我认为幸福是我们发现，我们创造的
And I think, however, we can make good relationships with each other.	我们可以和每个人建立良好的关系
So I want to conclude with two things.	所以我想以两件事来做总结
The worry is about antidepressants.	我的担忧是关于抗抑郁药的
They want to commit suicide or kill somebody else.	对那些想要自杀或者杀人的患者
Dopamine is associated with romantic love.	多巴胺是与浪漫爱情联系的
There's all kinds of reasons that you fall in love with one person rather than another.	你出于各种理由爱上某个人
Timing is important. Proximity is important.	时机很重要，距离也很重要
And that's what I'm now contributing to this.	这就是我现在正在努力研究的课题
I've been carrying on here about the biology of love.	我在这儿谈论的是爱情的生理基础
I mean, how hard can it be?	我的意思是，节食和运动很难吗？
She got diabetes. Case closed.	她得了糖尿病，基本就是这个情况。
But this time, I was the patient.	但是这次，我自己成了病人。
This is called fuel partitioning in the lingo.	在术语中称之为燃料分区。
Now failure to produce enough insulin is incompatible with life.	缺乏足够的胰岛素是很要命的。
More importantly, I don't have insulin resistance.	更重要的是，我没有胰岛素抵抗症了
But what if we have it backwards?	但是如果我们反过来想一下？
Let's look at some suggestive facts.	让我们来看些有暗示性的建议。
Some think it's too many calories consumed.	有一些认为是过量的卡路里摄入
I wish I could speak with that woman again.	我希望我可以再和那位女士聊聊。
You didn't need my judgment and my contempt.	你需要的不是我的判定和我的鄙视。
I literally grew up with the Ford Motor Company.	我其实就是在福特汽车公司里长大的
They'd sit down; I'd sneak out of the house.	等他们一坐下来，我就偷偷溜出去
But I really began to love cars then.	但从那以后我真正地爱上了汽车
My other great passion is the environment.	而我热爱的第二样事物就是环境
And that was true until I got to college.	我的确是这样认为的直到我上了大学
And I really discovered that my professors weren't completely wrong.	我也发现教授们所说的并不全是错的
We're pushing fuel efficiency to new heights.	我们将燃料效能推向新的高度
We're starting to sell electric cars, which is great.	我们开始销售电动汽车，这非常好
Today there are about 800 million cars on the road worldwide.	全球目前大约有8亿辆车行驶在路上
And this is going to create the kind of global gridlock that the world has never seen before.	这将造成空前的全球交通大拥堵
So you can see the size of the issue that we're facing.	你们可以看到我们面临问题有多大了
Well I think you probably already have the picture.	我想你们可能已经心里有数了
And our quality of life is going to be severely compromised.	我们的生活质量将被大打折扣
You know, we've come a long way.	要知道，我们已经走了很长的路程
We don't want to regress and lose that freedom.	我们不想倒退，失去这份自由
And rather than talk about it in the theory, I think I'm just going to show you an example.	并不是坐而论道，我来举个例子吧。
That's what it's like to be a patient in the hospital.	住院病人的感觉就是这样的。
And they were sort, you know, blinding glimpse of bleeding obvious.	而他们对此却有点视而不见。
And so, that was a really catalytic thing for them.	那对他们来说也是催化剂。
It's about tiny things that can make a huge amount of difference.	而是能造成巨大不同的细小的事
I thought that was a really, really nice example.	我认为那是个非常非常好的例子。
It's a history of invention based around this.	发明创造的历史便依据于此
I'm going to read this because I want to get these names right.	我得看着念，因为我要把名字念对
Again, another medical example here.	这里还有另一个医学方面的例子。
This is a picture in a Japanese subway.	这是一张日本地铁里的图片。
This stuff is really important. This stuff is really vital."	这个很重要，极为关键。"
This is people designing their own experiences.	这是人们设计自己经验的过程。
And we all, kind of, know how to read these signals now.	人人都明白这些信号的含义。
I talk about unthinking situations all the time.	我经常会谈论各类被疏忽的情形。
Children live on things. They live under things.	他们站在物品上面，或者爬到下面，
This is the storage system that he designed.	这是他所设计的贮存物品的工具。
So, you know, it's a totally different way of looking at the situation.	这是一种全新的解决问题的方法。
And then use that information to fuel solutions?	并且借助这种体会去解决面临的问题
So that's it. Thank you.	我的演讲就是这些，谢谢大家。
Laughter is contagious. Passion is contagious.	笑是会传染的，热情是会传染的
And that directly increased student wellbeing.	并且可以直接提升学生的幸福感
Children became more competent, and less helpless.	孩子们变得更有竞争力不再感到无助
And that can't happen in a classroom.	这你在教室里是绝对不会看到的
And it is a process that can be energized and nurtured.	而这是一个可以被激发和培养的过程
Now it was not about Riverside school.	现在，这不光光是河沿小学的事
We have the traffic police and municipal corporation helping us.	有交警和市里的官员帮助我们
And we plan to extend this to other parts of the city.	我们计划将此推广到城市的其他角落
We basically gave children a very simple challenge.	只给孩子们非常简单的任务
I mean, it was incredible.	我想说，这是多么不可思议啊！！！
K So, the charter of compassion starts right here.	好，一种怜爱之情油然而生
Street plays, auctions, petitions.	街头游戏，拍卖活动，请愿活动
I mean, they were changing lives.	我想说，他们正在改变生活。
So, if not us, then who?	那……除了我们还能有谁？
It's another subject. It's another conversation.	--这是别的话题，另一段谈话。
You can go back to his writings: it's quite extraordinary.	你可以看看他的作品，很棒。
And in parallel at that time, there was a very kind of exclusive design club.	同时还有一个特别的设计俱乐部。
And that, and more besides, would be in the palm of your hand.	此外，它们将只有你的掌心大小。
Unfortunately, it's not the answer.	可惜的是，那不是解决的方法。
And that urbanization is extraordinary, accelerated pace.	这样的都市化速度真实惊人的快。
In other words, it is accelerating by a factor of 10.	换句话讲，快了整整十倍。
How does it affect the design of buildings?	科技如何影响建筑物的设计？
In other words, for this community, they have this garden in the sky.	换句话说，这个社区有个空中花园。
This building was wired for change.	这栋建筑为了改变而布线。
So, in 1975, the image there is of typewriters.	1975年，图片上的是打字机。
And when the photograph was taken, it's word processors.	当拍摄照片时，则变成了电脑。
And what is interesting is that this is hugely popular by the people who use it.	有趣的是，这很受使用者的喜爱。
So it's not a kind of sacrifice, quite the reverse.	这不是一种牺牲，而是恰恰相反。
Well, obviously the building still happened.	当然，建筑还是盖起来了。
So for example, we would put models under an artificial sky.	例如，我们将模型放在人造天空下。
And that was at the time that we sought to redesign, reinvent the airport.	当时我们正在探索重新设计机场。
And that's a little image of the tree of Stansted.	那是斯坦斯德特机场的机构图。
I mean, a 94 percent reduction -- virtually clean.	减少了94%--几乎是零污染。
And this sequence shows the buildup of that model.	这一连串的图片将呈现模拟的过程。
It's a viewing place for people, not machinery.	让人观景的地方，而不是机械室。
And I'm just going to give two images out of a kind of company research project.	我将分享两张公司调查计划的图片。
It's been well known that the Dead Sea is dying.	大家都知道死海正在死亡。
The level is dropping, rather like the Aral Sea.	海平面正在下降，有点像咸海。
And the Dead Sea is obviously much lower than the oceans and seas around it.	死海的海平面显然比周围的海洋低。
Infrastructure at that large scale is also inseparable from communication.	如此庞大的基础设施也离不开沟通。
Now what form do they take?	那些机场会是什么样的呢？
It is physically the largest project on the planet at the moment.	这是目前地球上最大的项目。
So this is how we normally would light our offices.	我们办公室的照明一般都是这样的。
The sun is for dynamics, for color changes.	太阳是能动的，它主导明暗的变化
So in an indirect way, you can see the sun.	所以间接地人们也能都感受到阳光。
And enjoying the sun can be in many different ways, of course.	当然享受阳光可以有很多种方式。
They are in green energy consulting, or something like that.	从事绿色能源咨询或者类似业务。
I really owe a short introduction of this man to you.	今天我一定要把这个人介绍给大家。
Ambient luminescence is something very different.	环境光是完全不同的另一种光。
And you can imagine a lot more applications.	大家还可以举出更多的例子。
It never is to the benefit of people.	这些照明并没有为人类所用。
It only spoils the darkness.	它们只不过是毁坏了黑夜的美丽。
So at a global scale, it looks like this.	从全球来看，图像变成了这样。
How do they share their culture?	人们怎样共享彼此的文化呢？
How do we tackle things like mobility?	流动人口的问题又是如何解决的呢？
And how can light help there?	在这里照片能帮到人们什么呢？
And I will very quickly show you how it works.	现在我向大家快速地解释一下
Why are all these motorways permanently lit?	为什么高速公路上要通宵照明？
Can we be more gentle with light?	我们是否应在照明上有所节制了？
And it turns out once again that spectral sensitivity is very important here.	由此亦可见分光敏度的重要性。
Where have they come from? Where are they going?	他们从哪儿来，又到哪儿去？
In architecture, it works just the same.	对于建筑来说也是一样的道理。
And India wants to be a knowledge society.	而印度希望成为一个知识社会。
So, fairness to one and to the other is not divisible.	所以，人人平等是不能被分割的。
I'm a professor; I must quiz you.	我是个教授，我必须考考你们。
I'm so sorry to say that.	我对我所说的感到非常抱歉。
Doing what? Breaking stones, digging earth.	做什么哪？他们砸石头，挖地。
So we asked a question to the parliament: Do poor have heads?	我们问问政府国会，穷人有头脑吗？
This is what Honey Bee Network is about.	这就是蜜蜂网络的工作方式。
Somebody was talking yesterday about Maslowian hierarchy.	有人昨天谈到马斯洛需求阶梯图
Is she an artisan or an artist?	她是一位工匠还是一个艺术家？
Every morning you have tea, as well as coffee.	每天早上你可以喝茶也可以喝咖啡。
A lot of poor people do not have enough grains to get ground.	很多穷人没有足够的谷物种植。
Please understand the problem of poor people.	请理解穷人的面对的问题。
They don't want second-standard, second-quality outputs.	他们不想要此等的质量或产品
He is washing your clothes and drying them at your doorstep.	他会在你们的门口为你洗衣凉衣。
It looks like a beautiful photograph.	看起来像一幅美丽的照片。
Somebody from India would know, of course.	印度来的人能知道，当然。
It's a hot plate made of clay.	它是一种用陶土做的盘子。
Now, what is the beauty in it?	那么，这东西美在什么地方？
He has designed this plate with a handle.	你为这种锅设计了个手柄。
Things can scale up, and they have scaled up.	事情可以扩大，而且已经扩大了。
My desperation made me an innovator.	我的绝望使我成为了一个发明家。
Innovation is the light of my wife, Noor.	创新是我妻子的权利，不是吗。
Now, they call me the local Spiderman.	现在，他们称我为当地的蜘蛛侠。
This innovation is from the slums of Rio.	这个发明来自于河边的平民窟。
And this person, Mr. Ubirajara.	这个人，Ubirajara先生，
That is what Kanak Das has done.	那就是【不清楚】已经做过的。
Remove it, the cart needs one donkey less.	把它取下来，这个车就少用一头驴。
She said, "Change your profession."	她说，"改变你的职业。"
And this is what he did, a sewing machine in Uttar Pradesh.	这是他在北方邦所完成的缝纫机。
That's pretty good, but why not get rid of the wires?	这很好，那为什么不除掉电线呢？
Then you don't need anything to control the car, except thinking about it.	那么就只需意念就可以开车了。
And Henry Ford, just about 100 years ago, started cranking out Model Ts.	大概一百年前，福特开始生产T型车
So the car was the clean environmental alternative to a horse and buggy.	所以汽车是令环境更卫生的交通工具
In 5,000 years, we've gone backwards in getting around cities.	过了五千年，我们又回到了城市
And I can't believe a policeman is going to give themselves a ticket.	我就不相信警察会给自己发罚单
And yes, it's really fun, and yes, you should all go out and try it.	这真的很有趣，你该出去试一试
They learned to start with cell phones.	他们一开始就学会用手机。
They start at the top of the technology food chain.	他们从技术食物链顶端开始
This little beast, right now, is producing a few hundred watts of electricity.	这小怪正产生数百瓦的电力
The number one cause of death on this planet among humans is bad water.	世界首要致命原因就是恶水
We don't need sophisticated heart transplants around the world.	我们不需成熟的心脏移植手术
I don't know, but we'll try it.	我不知道，但我们会试试看
And so we're actually here to protect you.	所以实际上"我们是来保护你们的"
Finally, the Sinaloa Federation.	最后一个是锡纳罗亚贩毒集团
They have professional videographers on staff.	他们内部有职业的摄影师和摄影人员
You've probably seen something like this before.	你以前很可能也见过这个。
And then it's time to do it again. Last year.	所以去年，就是再做一次的好时机
And then finally, a lot of technologies commoditize.	最终，很多技术商品化了。
And here too, you can see the implications in the world at large.	从这里，你可以纵观这在全球的影响
That's as opposed to billions just a few years ago.	在几年前，这需要几十亿。
Each one of these genes has potential diagnostic test.	每一种基因都有诊断试验的潜力。
And the falling price of drugs has a lot to do with that.	药价的降低对这起到了很大的作用。
Now we've switched to critical mass.	现在我们换过来讲临界量。
These are now technologies that are hitting critical mass.	有一些技术现在正即将到达临界量。
Voice Over IP is something you may have heard something about.	你也许听说过在IP网上传输话音
And the same thing's happening on the carrier side.	同样的事情在电讯公司也发生了
It's going to look a little bit like that.	这个看上去有点象那样的情况。
Free is probably the most interesting thing.	免费大概是最有意思的事情。
They're facing a force that they haven't faced before.	他们正在面临一种前所未有的压力。
India had, still has, a regulated phone system and so did we.	印度和我们一样有常规的电话系统
Clearly, we're living in a moment of crisis.	显然我们处在一个满是危机的时刻。
Because of some of technologies we've been talking about.	由于我们现正谈论的科技。
And the problem is that neither side is listening to the other.	但问题的根结在于双方都各执己见。
Third, they are often creating markets.	第三，他们经常创造市场。
Second, it had to be extremely affordable.	第二点，它的价格需要极其低廉。
But drip irrigation isn't the only innovation.	不过滴灌系统不是仅有的创新发明。
President Obama understands that.	奥巴马总统明白这个道理。
I would say that the converse is true.	而我想说这句话反过来说也是对的。
Because I don't want them discriminated against anymore."	因为我不想她们再被歧视了。"
We have about 125 people internationally.	我们约有125名员工遍布世界各地
And then I wrote a post about a banjo.	一次我写了篇关于班卓琴的东西
You're just like your dad," who "collects" instruments.	你就像你爸爸一样，只收藏乐器。"
How much money does he spend on beer in a year?	他每年喝啤酒花了多少钱？
You could take that money and buy your banjo.	你可以用他喝啤酒的钱买班卓琴
Why don't you open a separate account?"	你们为什么不分开银行账户？"
And -- I was like, "OK, what, who are these people?	那么我想，他们都是谁啊？
And why are they reading this?"	为什么他们要读我的博客？
And I realized: I don't want to reach these people.	我意识到，我并不想有读者
And I started to kill my blog slowly.	我就慢慢地荒废自己的博客
And he never expected this.	他从没想过会发生这样的事
I put the bad pictures up too, because there are bad pictures.	我也放过一些很糟糕的照片确实很糟
This fish was revered by humankind.	这类鱼类是受人类尊重的。
Now in the Atlantic, the story is pretty simple.	现在在大西洋，故事很简单。
Bluefin have two populations: one large, one small.	蓝鳍金枪鱼群有两大分布，一大一小
This tuna symbolizes what's the problem for all of us in the room.	这种金枪鱼代表着一个普遍问题
Now, I've been working with tunas for over 15 years.	我已经与金枪鱼一起工作15年了。
That's the closest you'll probably ever get.	这大概是能办到的最近的观察了。
We put water over its gills, give it oxygen.	我们让水流过它的腮，给它氧气。
And that's the fisheries off the state of North Carolina.	那就是北卡罗兰纳渔业组织。
In this case, we're actually going to measure the fish.	这里我们正要去测量这个鱼
This tuna is actually moving on a numerical ocean.	这条在数字海洋中游动的金枪鱼
Living amongst our tunas -- our North American tunas -- are European tunas that go back to the Med.	欧洲的金枪鱼则游回地中海
These become forthright in places we need to protect.	这是明显应该被保护的地方
That's the size they have to be to protect the bluefin tuna.	这样才有可能能保护蓝鳍金枪鱼
Salmon sharks aren't the only sharks we tag.	我们不是只标记这一种鲨鱼。
We have white sharks and blue sharks.	我们第一次观察到了白鲨和蓝鲨
You can see why they might be caught.	你就知道为什么它们也可能被捕。
We just need to put it together.	我们只需要将它们整合起来。
Make killer apps, if you will.	如果你愿意的话，制作杀戮软件，
That way we do away with a few internet myths.	这是一些网上的这类图片。
So we can save the bluefin tuna.	所以，我们能够救蓝鳍金枪鱼
Hi there. I'm Hasan. I'm an artist.	大家好，我是哈桑，我是个艺术家
or "What kind of medium do you work in?"	或者"你在什么媒体行业工作？"
So what I'm really interested in is creative problem solving.	我真正感兴趣的是创造性地解决问题
And if there were, I would have remembered that one."	要是有的话，我肯定会记得的。"
They'll follow up with you, and we'll take care of it."	他们会接手的，我们会负责。"
So I spent a lot of time in this building.	我有很多时间泡在了这栋楼里
You're basically face-to-face with someone that essentially decides life or death.	因为你面对的是一个能决定生死的人
A couple weeks later, I'd call again, let them know.	几周以后，我会再打电话告诉他们
Don't want to make it look like I'm making any sudden moves."	"我可没想搞什么小动作"
Just letting you know. Heads up."	只是想让你们知道，有所准备"
You don't have to waste your energy or your resources.	你们不用浪费精力浪费资源
Singapore. You can see, they're kind of empty.	新加坡你看这些地方基本空的
These images are shot really anonymously to the point where it could be anyone.	这是照片都是随便拍的不分时地
I was certainly not thinking, hey, I got new work here.	不是想"啊，我有新的工作"
And then sometimes you don't get much information at all, you just get this empty bed.	有时候没什么信息只是张空床
And sometimes you get a lot of text information and no visual information.	有时候很多文字信息但没有图片信息
So how do you know these are meals eaten at home?	你怎么知道这些是在家用餐呢？
Well the same plate shows up a whole bunch of times.	因为这个碟子重复出镜了很多次
So sometimes the databases get so specific.	有时候这些数据非常特定化
So I time-stamp my life every few moments.	每隔一会儿我就纪录下我的生活
So what you're basically seeing here is all bits and pieces and all this information.	你这儿能看到是一点一滴的信息
And really, it's not the most user-friendly interface.	而且这不是个用户友好的界面
So what do you do when everything is out there?	当所有信息都暴露的时候你怎么办？
Why are you posting these photos?"	"你干吗要把照片都传上去？"
So in a way, I'm glad that I'm completely obsolete.	某种程度上说我很高兴我完全过时了
And I cleaned up the list a little bit so you can see.	我把单子缩减你们可以看到
Not really sure why they show up, but they do.	不明白他们问什么来，不过他们来了
And I'm glad that we have patrons of the arts in these fields.	很高兴我们有那个领域的赞助人
This image here is from 2008.	这幅图片是从2008年开始的。
The pink dots represent host properties.	粉色点表示可以租赁的房屋。
Now the same view in 2010.	现在，是在2010年的同一视图。
They realized they'd run out of dog food.	他们意识到狗粮快吃完了，
How do we mimic the way trust is built face-to-face online?	我们如何在线模仿面对面建立信任？
Reputation is the measurement of how much a community trusts you.	信誉测量社会信任你的程度。
Now, I know what you might be thinking.	现在，我知道你可能会想。
It's a bit like when I moved from New York to Sydney.	这有点像我从纽约搬到悉尼。
I was essentially a ghost in the system.	我本质上不存在他们的体系中。
We're living through one of those moments.	我们现在正处其中的一个时机。
"Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber."	"享受沉稳香甜的睡眠甘露。"
What do we do in the 20th century about sleep?	在20世纪，我们对睡眠做了什么？
And our ignorance about sleep is really quite profound.	我们对睡眠的无知真的是很严重。
Why is it? Why do we abandon sleep in our thoughts?	为什么？为什么我们不想睡觉呢？
Now, that's the equivalent of a hot dog bun.	这是相当于一个热狗面包。
However, it's not just the laying down of memory and recalling it.	然而，我们不只是躺下来开始回顾。
In fact, it's been estimated to give us a threefold advantage.	事实上，这带给我们三倍的优势。
Sleeping at night enhances our creativity.	晚上睡觉增强了我们的创造力。
But sleep is not an indulgence.	但是，睡眠不是一种放纵。
So let's now look at sleep deprivation.	所以，我们现在看看睡眠的剥夺。
For teenagers, it's worse, much worse.	对于青少年来说、情况更加糟糕。
And then, of course, tens of millions of people suffer from jet lag.	然后，数以千万的人们受时差影响。
So who here has jet lag?	那么，在座的有谁受时差影响？
It can actually ease the sleep transition.	它实际上可以帮助睡眠的过渡。
Another connection between loss of sleep is weight gain.	另外，睡眠和体重增加有关联。
Stress. Tired people are massively stressed.	压力。疲惫的人压力都很大。
Stress increases cardiovascular disease as a result of raising blood pressure.	压力会增加心血管疾病会升高血压。
Who feels that they're getting enough sleep here?	这里谁觉得自己睡眠充足？
It's the worst thing we can possibly do before we went to sleep.	这是入睡前最不适合做的事。
Turn off those mobile phones. Turn off those computers.	请关闭移动电话，计算机。
And what you need to do is listen to your body.	你需要做的就是听从你的身体。
Old people need less sleep. Not true.	老年人需要较少的睡眠。不正确。
Well that's wrong at so many different levels.	在很多层面上，这个观点都是错的。
There's no difference in socioeconomic status.	在社会经济地位上没有区别。
We've got, in these connections, some really exciting things.	我们看到了这些令人兴奋的关联。
We used to understand intuitively the importance of sleep.	我们过去是理解睡眠的重要性的。
You all know the truth of what I'm going to say.	你们都应该知道我要讲的事实。
But first, see what a miserable lot we are.	但是首先，来看看我们的命有多苦。
I want to start though with a paradox.	我想以一个矛盾开始我的演讲。
This, again, is life expectancy.	这张图展示的，依然是平均寿命。
And that's what I'm going to show you.	这就是我马上要告诉你们的。
I'm not using any hypothetical data.	我没有使用任何假设的数据。
We put them all in one index.	我们把所有这些都归到一个系数里。
I may say, we did all this work twice.	我要说，我们重复了这项工作两次。
But look at the scale of the differences.	但是看看它们的数量差异。
Here we have children dropping out of high school.	这张图是儿童高中辍学状况。
It's actually a measure of mobility based on income.	实际上是基于收入的流动率计算。
There's more social mobility.	那里有更多的社会阶层流动。
I could have shown a number of other problems.	我还可以展示一些其它的问题。
Think of the expense, the human cost of that.	想想花费，人力成本的花费。
It starts off with much smaller differences in earnings before tax.	首先日本税前工资差距比较小。
The biggest differences are at the bottom of society.	最大的差异出现在社会的底层。
It also leads to status insecurity.	但它同样也导致了地位的不确保性。
I feel like I've got something to say and something to share.	我感到自己有东西要说，要分享。
It's something that I have to do with other people.	这是需要与他人合作才能完成的。
Yeah, you all have a body, right?	大家都长了一个身体，不是吗？
So we're experts in physical thinking already.	所以我们已经是肢体思考的专家了。
We just don't think about our bodies very much.	我们只是不太关注自己的身体。
That's not the methodology at all that we work with.	这不是我们通常用的方法。
Okay. I can do also my shoulder. Yeah?	好。我还可以用我的肩膀。不是吗？
I'm not remembering what I'm doing.	我没有在记忆我做过的动作。
So we're starting to build a phrase.	所以我们开始组建一个词语。
Yeah, they're super quick, right?	他们现在已经很快了，是吗？
They start with small little units and build it up.	他们以很小的单元开始，慢慢构建。
That's going to be my beginning in this world premiere.	这将是我世界首演的开始。
Okay. From there I'm going to do a very different thing.	好。接下来我要做一些不同的事。
So basically I'm going to make a duet.	简单地说，我要创造一个二重唱。
Can you place that down into the floor?	把它放下到地板上可以吗？
You're both getting up. Here we go. Good, now? Them.	都站起来。对了。好，现在。他们。
Okay, let's have a little go from the beginning of that.	好，让我们从最开始来一遍。
Yeah. Just a little bit more, here we go, from that place.	再多一点点，我们开始，从那边。
Separate. Face the front. Separate. Face the front.	分开。面对前方。分开。面对前方。
Avoid it. Avoid it. Whoom. Kick it out of the way.	躲开它。躲开它。喔。把它踢走。
Let me just see that a little bit. Ready, and go.	让我们再来看一下。准备，开始。
If you reach with your finger, where would it be?	如果用你的手指去触摸，它会在哪？
If you reach with your elbow, where would it be?	如果用你的手肘，它会在哪？
Three versions of physical thinking, yeah?	这就是三个版本的身体思考
It's a lot harder than you might think.	这可能比你想象的要困难很多。
You want a cigarette in prison? Three to five dollars.	在监狱想买一根香烟？3到5美元。
Beneath it is a wonderful knife.	大家留心看会发现底下那里有一把刀
It's a Global cutting knife made in Japan.	那是一把日本生产的万能小刀
First of all, look at the shape -- it's just wonderful to look at.	先看看它的形状那是多么美
And so it's got everything, right?	这是不是说它是十全十美呢
Is that a good way to play ping-pong?	这是不是玩乒乓球的好办法？
It's really simple and subtle.	非常简单又非常细腻的一个设计
It said, "You know, this is a car that has lots of faults.	上面写到这是一辆充满缺陷的汽车
I'm going to put a plank on the ground.	好我要往地板上放一块木板
Would you tie those two strings together?"	你们能把这两根绳子绑起来吗
That's what brainstorming is about, right?	这不就是头脑风暴之本质吗
You get a little problem, you say, "Ah, I'll figure it out."	遇到问题你就会想我会找办法解决它
There's something I call the visceral level of processing, and there will be visceral-level design.	一种是知觉层面的信息处理
And when people are finished, they don't throw it away.	人们喝完里面的水之后不会把罐扔掉
Behavioral is subconscious, you're unaware of it.	行为也是这样的你也感觉不到
Most of what we do is subconscious.	我们做的大多数东西是潜意识的
It's a Ronnefeldt tilting teapot.	它是一款罗纳福特斜体茶壶
It's about attention. It's about their image, not about the car.	这关乎他们的形象而不是汽车本身
But that's reflective design as well.	但这就是反思性设计之体现
I'm only saying positive things from now on.	从现在开始我只会说事物的好话
Now, by remoteness, I mean two or three different kinds of things.	偏远程度的意思不止一个。
So keep both of those ideas of remoteness.	请记住这两个关于偏远程度的定义。
They do not have good enough infrastructure.	他们缺乏良好的基础设施。
It did not correlate with the poverty levels. It did not correlate.	贫穷程度无关。完全没有关系。
They're called the hole-in-the-wall experiments.	这些实验被称为"墙中洞实验"。
And what we did over there was pretty much simple.	我们在那里的工作非常简单。
And what he was doing was, he was teaching her to browse.	他正在教她如何浏览网页。
He came there and he started to fiddle around with the touchpad.	他走过来，开始随意摆弄触控板。
And by the evening of that day, 70 children were all browsing.	到了傍晚，共有70个孩子在上网。
At this time there was a -- the main question was about English.	现在，我们主要的问题在于英语。
So, it has to be the other way about.	所以，必须想出另一个办法。
You know, how on earth did they know all this?	他们到底怎么琢磨出来的啊？
Just a quick idea of the measurements.	我再简单介绍一下测量的方法。
In short, what all of us do.	一句话，我们会做的，他们都会。
What you have, actually, is there is one child operating the computer.	实际情况是，一个孩子在操纵电脑，
And all of them also will clear a test given on that subject.	他们的测试结果也是相同的。
So what does the eight-year-old do?	一个八岁的孩子会怎么做呢？
It does not have to be imposed from the top downwards.	不一定非要至上而下灌输。
You sort of get down there to the bottom and things get really dicey.	一条一条越往下看，越是奇形怪状
They're on sites big, they're on sites small.	大网站上也有，小网站上也有
A 404 page is not what you're looking for.	这个时候突然冒出来一个404页面
I mean, I've heard about that.	还真的有人跟我这么形容过
I was born unable to see most colors.	我从生下来就分辨不了大多数颜色。
And I'd always wanted to be a fighter pilot when I was a boy.	我小时候总希望成为一名飞行员。
in Angola or Afghanistan.	在安哥拉或阿富汗的代理战。
And my ambition was sealed.	而我更加确定了我的抱负。
I headed the Middle East Peace Process section in the British Foreign Ministry.	我领导中东和平进程在英国外交部。
I became a speechwriter for the British Foreign Secretary.	我成为了撰稿人为英国外交大臣。
I met Yasser Arafat.	我会见过亚西尔阿拉法特。
And my responsibility was the Middle East, which was my specialty.	我的责任是中东，也是我的专长。
I mean it was very dramatic diplomacy.	我是说它是非常戏剧化的外交。
But they were random things.	但是，那都是很随机的事情。
And I testified to that inquiry in secret.	我秘密地为那个调查作证。
The third reason, I won't go into.	第三个原因，我就不说了。
And so I was in crisis.	同时，我也身处危机之中。
I felt just something's broken.	我感觉就是有些什么东西不对劲。
So took a running leap and jumped over the edge of a cliff.	那感觉像飞跃起来跳过悬崖的边缘。
Those riots were part of the manifestation of that frustration.	骚乱是体现沮丧的一部分。
That means the power of others things is rising.	那意味着其他东西的权利在上升。
Those other things are called non-state actors.	那些是被称为非国家的东西。
If they can't do it, who's left to deal with it?	如果它们做不了，谁将去解决？
We have no choice but to embrace that reality.	我们没有选择，只能接受现实。
The U.N. was established in 1945.	联合国成立于一九四五年。
That is the state of the world today.	那就是现今这个世界的状况。
So I started off in a traditional mode.	所以，我开始了传统的方式。
It'll be great. You can have an exchange.	它太棒了。你们可以互换。
Super-logical, you would think.	完美的逻辑，你可能这么想。
Technology has not delivered political change in Iran.	在伊朗，科技不再传达政治变革。
They call it stupid, and worse, believe me.	他们称之为愚蠢肯定还有更难听的
The other thing about human beings is that we love to be entertained.	人类的另一特性是我们热衷于娱乐
Animals might love to play, but they don't love to watch.	动物也许喜欢玩耍但他们不喜欢观看
Why has television entertainment evolved the way it has?	为什么电视娱乐以它的方式发展？
So to begin to answer these questions, we did a research study.	为解答这个问题我们做了一个研究
But as you can see, these emotional need states are truly universal.	但是这些感情需求是共通的
This is rising. Comfort stays whole.	舒适性在上升，在主导地位
Social commentary and irreverence rise throughout the 70s.	社会评论和不敬在70年代不断上升
I can vote you off the island.	我要通过投票让你离开小岛
I can choose the next American Idol. You're fired.	我来定下一个美国偶像你被炒了
It's boring. Um, who cares, and it sucks."	太无聊了。嗯，管他呢，就是恶心。
The main characters in the story are bacteria and viruses.	故事的主角是细菌和病毒。
It kills me. I'm not kidding.	我被"严谨"二字折磨死了，真的。
We have to change it to something much more technical."	得换成更严谨科学的表述。"
I'm just trying to tell a story."	"我只是想说一个故事。"
Because good storytelling is all about emotional connection.	好的故事需要关注的是情感的联系。
I think this sentiment is particularly relevant to science education.	我想这跟科学教育有相通之处。
Make me laugh. Make me care.	逗观众开心，吸引他们注意。
Let's see, I'd say about three or four percent.	让我看下。大概有百分之三或四的人
This world had no place in my affections.	这个世界没有我感情可寄托的地方
Others overcome their self at raves.	其他人在欢快热舞中找寻自我超越
The lower level he called the level of the profane.	他把比较低的一个层次称为世俗层
And in our ordinary lives we exist as individuals.	在我们的平常生活中我们以个体存在
We want to satisfy our individual desires.	我们想满足我们的各种个人欲望
So let me summarize where we are.	所以让我来总结下我们已经讨论的
Maybe one of them will make it to the Olympics.	可能他们中只有一个人能进军奥运会
But suppose then that one of them mutates.	但是假如它们其中一个产生突变
The free-riders have taken over.	而被那些"爱搭便车者"所取代
In fact, nature has solved it many, many times.	事实上，自然界已经解决它好多次
A superorganism can basically take what it wants.	一个超个体可以索取它们所想的
Of course, human groups are nowhere near as cohesive as beehives.	当然，人类群体的凝聚力远不如蜂房
We are Homo duplex, as Durkheim explained.	我们都有双重性正如涂尔干所说的
What should I do with my life?	我应该怎样度过我的一生？
They're all searching for their staircase.	他们都在找寻他们自己的楼梯
It had everything I needed. It was quiet.	这里有我需要的所有东西。很安静。
Hemingway had his writing space.	海明威就有他自己的写作空间。
And he found the scoreboard in the trash.	他还在垃圾房上立了比分板。
It has no nails or screws.	这个房间没有一个钉子或螺丝。
It's made to look like the inside of an English sailing ship.	它内部看起来是一个英国航船。
And they were unexpected and they were surprising.	他们都很出乎意料，很令我惊奇。
And they really loved their professions.	他们非常热爱他们自己的职业。
It's a thought. Just a thought.	这就是我的一个想法，一个想法而已
And there's something nice about slides getting stuck.	其实幻灯片卡住也是挺妙的一件事
With that, let's get the first slide up here.	那我们就这么开始第一张图片吧
O.K., which one would you park in front of?	好，你们想在哪扇前面停车？
Yet it doesn't say that; it doesn't need to say that.	然而它没写出来，它也不需要写出来
I would probably park in front of the other one.	我想我会停在另外一家门前
He didn't overpower it like they have a tendency to do.	他没像以往那样想要主导它
This is for a book by "Metropolis."	这是Metropolis的一本书
And "The End of Print" is now in its fifth printing.	"印刷的终结"已经在印第五版了
People are just going to take pictures now.	现在人们就直接去用相机了
Just because something's legible doesn't means it communicates.	一个东西很清楚，并不代表它能交流
And I think that's sometimes an overlooked area.	我觉得这个方面常常被忽略了
I hate this stuff. It's hard to read.	我讨厌这些东西，一点都看不清楚。
So, this is a project for Nine Inch Nails.	这个是为"九寸钉"做的一个项目
And I thought, you know, what were they thinking?	然后我就嘀咕，他们到底怎么想的？
You'd think maybe cement, possibly, or something.	你会想怎么也得是水泥或者什么的
I don't have the site. It's just the piece itself.	我没有它们的网站，只是这一件作品
I felt this was one of the more successful solutions.	我觉得这是个比较成功的方案
I did some work for Microsoft a few years back.	几年前我为Microsoft干活
I found out that's very true, working on this campaign worldwide.	我发现这千真万确就在我打工期间
I'm just not sure this is improvement.	我只是不确定这是不是进步
This lady's advertising for her lost pit bull.	一位女士贴广告找她的比特犬
That's pretty high for most occupations.	这个比率对大多数职业来说是挺高的
And for the most part, they're not real life-threatening.	大多时候，这些都不会危及生命
Why not put some of yourself into the work?	为什么不把你的个性放进作品里？
And if you wouldn't, what the heck are you doing?	如果你不会，你在瞎捣鼓什么呢？
And I'm not even sure we know what technology is.	我甚至不确定我们真的认识科技。
And one definition of technology is that which is first recorded.	有一个最早对科技的定义。
So it sums up a lot of what we're talking about.	但它涵盖了许多我们讨论的事物。
But I was interested in another definition of technology.	但我却对科技的另一个定义感兴趣。
Something, again, that went back to something more fundamental.	它再次触及到更基本的一些东西
So this is a very rough attempt to think out loud.	因此这是一种边想边说的粗略尝试。
And the last thing, I bring back this nudibranch.	最后我再提一下裸鳃亚目。
This is all the contents of a Japanese home.	这是日本家庭的所有东西。
So we're seeing huge numbers of diversity in the kinds of things.	因此我们看到大量的物品多样性。
But as a sideline, he happens to collect cornets.	但业余，他也收藏小铜喇叭。
And it turns out that, in fact, technologies don't die.	结果呢，事实上科技不会死。
Maybe I should do this sort of in a more conservative way.	也许我该用比较保守的方式去查看。
I don't know who needs a corn sheller.	我不知道现在还有谁要玉米脱粒机
So we've all heard about the Amish giving up cars.	我们都听过阿米希人放弃车子。
We've heard about the Japanese giving up guns.	我们也听过日本人放弃枪炮。
That's what it's for. It's so that ideas don't die out.	其目的是要使观念生生不息。
It's accelerating the way in which we search for ideas.	它正在加速我们寻找观念的方式。
That is what we call an "infinite game."	那就是我们所说的无限赛局，
And those are the things that technology brings us.	那些就是科技带给我们的事。
Differences, freedom, choices, possibilities.	差别、自由、选择、可能。
Imagine Van Gogh being born before the technologies of cheap oil paints.	想像梵谷生在廉价油彩的科技之前。
Imagine Hitchcock before the technologies of film.	想像希区考克生在电影科技之前。
Our humanity is actually defined by technology.	人道实际上是由科技定义的。
That recursive nature is the infinite game.	那个递回的本质就是无限赛局。
But I'm actually not here to talk about fiction.	但我其实不打算在这里谈论小说。
And actually, they're very quickly becoming a reality.	实际上，他们正在很快成为现实。
And this has always been the case, throughout history.	在整个历史长河中一直是如此。
The first of these is the deluge of video that drones produce.	第一是无人机拍摄的大量视频。
High-tech manufacturing is occurring on most continents.	高科技制造业在大多数大陆上发生。
Notice that certain individuals are highlighted.	请注意那些突出显示的个人。
These are the hubs of social networks.	这些都是社交网络的枢纽。
And it could set the stage for global action.	它可以为全球立法行动铺路。
Let's not succumb to the temptation to automate war.	我们不会屈服于自动化战争的诱惑。
Yeah, I'll be a filmmaker."	对，我想要成为一名摄影师。"
It's like nothing you've ever done.	这就像开始了一段全新的旅程。
Where you go and film a really nice sequence at a bay.	当你出去拍摄一个非常棒的海湾
And over here there's a golf course going in.	在那里即将兴建一座高尔夫球场。
I'm a big fan of grassroots organizations.	我十分坚信普通民众们的力量。
I'm an individual. I'm one person.	我只是一个个体，我只有一个人。
Look in your own backyard.	可以站在你自己的立场来看待它们。
So that's how I answer that question.	这就是我对这个问题的回答。
And do that, and spread the word.	就这样做下去，并且把它传播开来。
And I applaud that. I loudly applaud that.	我为这个提议鼓掌，大声的鼓掌。
This work is called Xia Gang .	这件作品的题目叫"下岗"，
But still they are not big enough for JR, unfortunately.	可是没办法，我眼睛还是那么小。
LB: This one is about 9/11 memories.	这件作品是关于911的一些回忆。
LB: This is the Borghese Gallery in Rome.	这是罗马的博尔盖塞美术馆。
Interpreter: This one is called Instant Noodles.	这件作品的题目叫"方便面"。
These phosphors can even cause cancer.	这些荧光粉甚至可以致癌。
LB: These works are on China's cultural memories.	这几件作品是关于中国的文化记忆。
Now my mother was different.	我母亲当时是与众不同的。
And I just ate it up.	我就如饥似渴地读卡通书。
We pass it down from generation to generation.	我们把这传统传递了一代又一代。
I grew up not far from here in Washington D.C.	我在离华盛顿特区不远的地方长大
My parents got divorced, and my sister was arrested.	我父母离婚了，我妹妹被逮捕了。
I can't help it. I live here.	我改变不了。我生活在这儿。
And so there's an urgent need for a scientific theory of cities.	我们迫切需要运用城市的科学原理
Now these are my comrades in arms.	这些是我全副武装的同志们
And you see, you're very familiar with this.	你们可以看到你的情况与之十分相似
It's three-quarters, roughly, which is less than one -- and we call that sublinear.	大约为3比4小于1呈"次线性"
That's a little thing that lives inside an elephant.	这是生长在大象体内的一种小生物
The question is: Is any of this true for cities and companies?	问题是这是否也适用于城市和企业
The top one is wages as a function of size plotted in the same way.	上图以工资作为规模参数同理制表
And what you see is a scaling phenomenon.	上面显示出一个规模增长的现象
The universality, to repeat, is us -- that we are the city.	普遍性在于我们我们就是城市
The bigger you are, life gets faster.	你长得越大生长速度就越快
Economies of scale gave rise to this sigmoidal behavior.	规模经济使之呈现反曲现象
And how do you avoid that? Well we've done it before.	如何避免这种情况呢我们曾尝试过
So lastly, I'm going to finish up in this last minute or two asking about companies.	最后我会花一两分钟看看公司的情况
And I'm only showing you a little bit of this.	我今天展示给大家的只是冰山一角
There's Walmart. Doesn't look very sigmoidal.	这是沃尔玛看起来并不十分像个S
That red line is from the theory.	红线表示的是理论上的预测
Luckily, I didn't have to teach them American government.	幸运的,我这次不用教美国政治。
Could teach them the more exciting topic of geography.	这次我教的是更令人兴奋的地理。
Again, "thrilled" to learn.	再一次,非常期待的要学习。
And he was going to speak at the high school next door to us.	他当时正要到隔壁的高中演讲
It's the first time we'd done this.	这是我们第一次尝试制作短片。
Fast-forward to Pennsylvania, where I find myself today.	快进到宾州,我现在住的地方。
And they had certain criteria to do it.	我为这项作业设了一些其他的条件
But I gave them the room to just do the thing.	但我给了他们空间去做这个作业。
Go create. Go figure it out.	去创造,去自己发现该怎么做。
This was done in like two or three days.	这个作品大概花了两三天的时间
And they immediately went, "There it is."	他们立刻指着这个作品回答"这件"
And I said, "Go read it."	我说,"现在去读读内容"
There are words that we're truly afraid of.	有些词我们是打心底害怕的
And this is just the same.	我们所讨论的这个主意也一样。
Just have a look at the demographics in the U.S. here.	光看看这里美国的人口统计资料。
All those things do is change who pays.	这些系统所作的只是改变谁来买单。
This is a newt re-growing its limb.	这是一只水螈，在进行肢体的再生。
We need to learn to speak the body's language.	我们需要讲我们身体所讲的语言，
Secondly, we can use materials.	第二，我们可以使用外来材料。
And he asked a very important question.	他同时提出一个很重要的问题。
The treatment for this is amputation.	唯一的治疗方法就是截肢。
Could you regenerate a limb?	我们能不能重新长出一个肢体？
This is happening today.	这样的事情现在已经可以实现。
This is clinically relevant today.	这在现在是有临床意义的。
But could you go a little further?	但我们是否能有更进一步的发展？
You see the cells coming back out.	你会看到干细胞被冲出来。
These are now two years out.	这些数据已经是两年前的了。
It's a great source of stem cells.	这其实是很好的干细胞来源。
Stem cells are packed in that liposuction fluid.	脂肪液中慢慢的塞着很多干细胞。
All done in the lab.	这全部都是在实验室里完成的。
Here's just one example before I close up.	我在结束前再提最后一个例子。
And that bio-reactor will lay down in the wound bed.	这种生物反应器可以铺在创面上。
The gun that you see there sprays cells.	大家看到的那个喷枪则会喷上细胞。
That's going to spray cells over that area.	将细胞均匀的喷洒到伤口上。
It's a completely different way of doing it.	这是个全然不同的治疗方法。
And so I've brought a couple of them with me.	我今天把她们几个一起带来了
Thank you so very much for having me here today.	非常感谢今天能让我来到这里
Ah, thank you very much. My name is Lorraine Levine.	啊非常感谢你们我的名字叫珞琳莱文
And you know what that means, of course.	你们知道那是什么意思当然了
And she was getting a yogurt in the Google cafe.	她那会儿刚好在谷歌咖啡厅拿酸奶
So many others you see, they're just wonderful.	还有其他好多人他们都很棒
And -- oh, I saw Goldie Hawn.	噢对我还见到了戈尔迪霍恩
And I -- you know, when I saw her, such a wonderful feeling.	而我当我见到她的时候我感觉太棒了
You know, your parents must be very proud.	你们的父母一定为你们感到非常骄傲
But I -- I also appreciate the diversity that you have here.	而且我也非常喜欢这里的多样性
I noticed it's very multicultural.	我发现这里汇集了多元文化
You know, it's heartening to me.	跟你们在一起让我振奋不已
And whenever I get nervous I start to talk really fast.	每当我紧张我说话就特别快
So then I'm like, should I be nervous, you know, because maybe it's better.	于是我想也许我应该紧张点儿才好
And I'm just trying not to panic and freak out. So I like, take a deep breath.	我要尽量不慌张所以我得深呼吸
Like, I love everything about this. It's amazing.	我喜欢这里的一切太不可思议了
And actually, I can relate to the whole like acronym thing and everything.	事实上我自己跟缩略语也很有关系
Because, actually, I'm a sophomore at college right now.	我现在是大学二年级的学生
I mean, I know sometimes our lifestyles are very different, whatever.	我知道我们的生活方式很不一样
But like even at my job -- like, I just got promoted.	即使在工作上我刚刚获得了晋升
I come from a multicultural family.	我来自一个多元文化的大家庭
You know, she was very chic, but she was very filled with ennui, you know.	她很时髦很优雅但她又十分倦怠
And they've inspired many characters as well.	他们激发了我很多创作灵感
So, but I'm thrilled to be joining all of you here.	但我非常高兴能够参加你们的活动
They love rock music, pop culture, American culture.	他们喜欢摇滚乐流行文化美国文化
So, then I decide instead, I will concentrate on my daughter.	之后我决定把注意力放在我女儿身上
The daughter's marriage is very special to the mom.	女儿的婚事对妈妈来说很特别
And she doesn't want me to come and visit.	她也不愿意让我去学校看她
So, I accused my daughter to have like a secret boyfriend.	我责怪女儿有个秘密的男朋友
But she told me, "Mom, it's not American."	但她跟我说妈妈不是美国人
She said she is in love -- in love with a nice Chinese girl.	她说她爱上了一个中国姑娘
And I see that a few of them did make it here to the conference.	我看到他们有些人来到了大会现场
And when I touch you, I feel happy inside.	当我抚摸你时我内心感到幸福无比
That's all, shukran. Thank you very much for the opportunity.	就是这样非常感谢你们给我这个机会
But I found that there were some advantages to being in Hollywood.	但我发现在好莱坞有很多好处
And, in fact, some advantages to owning your own media company.	拥有自己的传媒公司也有其好处
But I'm actually here today to tell a story.	但我今天在这里要讲述一个故事
It's a world of peace and prosperity and sustainability.	一个和平繁荣和可持续的世界
People today we call social entrepreneurs.	现在被我们称为"社会企业家"
And so this is one way to bet on good people doing good things.	而这些都是帮助好人做好事的例子
It's what we call, "Invest, connect and celebrate."	这就是"投入，联络，庆祝"
And then of course, there was the other adage.	当然了，还有另外的说法，
And it turned out to be a pretty good year for this guy.	那一年对我们来说真是意义重大
Everything we do looks at the major issues in the world.	我们关注着世界上重大的问题
I'll quickly talk about a few coming up.	我想快速地介绍几部即将上映的电影
And I want to thank you all for having me here today.	谢谢你们今天来听我的演讲
It's been a real honor. Thank you.	我感到非常荣幸，谢谢你们。
How many people do you think are on that taxi?	你猜在那辆出租车上有几个人？
That's sterilizing equipment in Nigeria.	这是尼日利亚的消毒设备。
I want them to think, "Well there's some hope."	我想让他们觉得，'仍然有希望。'
Now, have a look at that. That's the anesthesiology machine.	接下来，看看这个，这是麻醉机。
Anesthesiology and critical care -- look at that bag.	麻醉及紧急护理--看看那个包。
And believe me, these are current pictures.	相信我，这真的是现在的照片。
There we go -- we're going on a mission.	在这儿，我们正在进行义诊。
You get wealthier faster if you are healthy first.	首先要健康才能更快的致富。
Open-heart surgery in Nigeria -- big trouble.	尼日利亚的开胸手术--很困难。
We get a lot of donated equipment.	我们得到了许多捐助的设备。
So what we going to do now?	那么我们现在该怎么办呢？
Do you figure where that is? It was on a window.	看出是在哪儿了吗？是在窗户上。
You still get people who believe in it and they came.	还是有人相信科学，他们来检查
At 67 percent oxygen saturation, the normal is about 97.	氧饱和度是67%，正常是97%。
We did 12 open-heart surgical patients successfully.	我们成功地做了12例开胸手术。
This is what I mean about appropriate technology.	这就是我所指的恰当的科技。
Have you seen one of those before?	你们以前看过这种情景吗？
Decide which instruments, stock it up with consumables.	确定用哪种设备，和必需品一起储存
The technology for oxygen delivery is not new.	氧供给技术并不是新技术。
These are members of my graduating class, 1986.	这些是我1986年毕业班的同学。
And lots and lots of that little bit down there, sacrifice.	还有那里的许多许多的牺牲。
It was quite a momentous occasion for all of us.	那会，对于我们来说皆是重大时刻。
It doesn't have to be in the closet."	它又不是什么见不得人的东西。"
It's quite extraordinary what they do.	他们所干成的事真是了不起。
Now that is prevention at the very beginning of life.	从生命伊始就获得各种保护。
This is Avelile -- she goes with me wherever I go.	这位就是阿维利尔。她与我同在。
Today, things are a lot more subtle."	今天，事情则难以捉摸的多。"
And government regulation often isn't helping all that much.	通常政府监管并不能帮上太大忙。
Now it's time for full disclosure.	现在是时候大白于天下了。
Like this character. Remember these guys?	像是这一位。还记得这些人吗？
We prefer to know them as the mafia.	我们通常称他们为黑手党。
But that's what happened all over Eastern Europe.	但是当时整个东欧都是这样
But above all else, by talking to the gangsters themselves.	除此之外,还会直接与罪犯们交谈
And where were they heading?	这些东西最终运向什么地方？
But what about the Democratic Republic of Congo?	那么民主刚果共和国怎么样呢？
Since 1998, five million people have died there.	从1998年起，5百万人已经死亡
Now, cigarettes out the factory gate are very cheap.	现在，工厂生产的香烟非常便宜
The European Union then imposes the highest taxes on them in the world.	但欧盟要求他们付世界上最高的税。
And it's the fastest thing on European waters.	欧洲再没有什么跑得比它快了
It was the liberalization of international financial markets.	还有世界金融市场的自由化
And boy, did that make it easy for the money launderers.	老实说，洗钱实在是太容易了
But at the heart of this, is the offshore banking network.	这些问题的根源在于跨国银行网络
Well I can tell you, it's quite a few of them.	我可以告诉各位，真的很多
And it has no rules to its regulatory system.	而且它没有规定和管制系统。
I was introduced to this bit of kit by a Brazilian cybercriminal.	我是通过一位巴西网络罪犯认识他的
And these pills contain only low doses of the active ingredient.	然而者写药品内含的剂量不足
They affect our bank accounts.	他们影响着我们的银行账户
There is no romance involved with gangsters in the 21st Century.	黑手党们并不浪漫在21世纪的今天
Everybody knew that, for generations.	一代一代，大家都知道这个故事
And they weren't savanna species.	结果发现它们不是草原物种
We've got to go back to square one and start again."	我们必须返回最初，一切从头开始
You've believed it through generations.	一代一代我们对此深信不疑
And we just record what we see."	然后记录下我们所观察到的
Charles Darwin must be spinning in his grave!	达尔文一定会在九泉之下气得团团转
He knew all about that kind of science.	如果他得知这种"科学"态度
There was one waiting in the wings.	现在已经有一个在旁边等着了
Let's look at our naked skin.	让我们来看看我们裸露的的皮肤吧
We have got skin lined with this layer.	我们的皮下已经具有这样的脂肪层了
Something very odd, matter-of-factly, never explained.	有一个很奇怪的现象，从来没有解释
The question of why we can speak.	就是关于为什么我们能说话的问题
And the gorilla can't speak. Why?	大猩猩却不能，为什么呢？
It was an absolute precondition for our being able to speak.	这是能够说话的先决必要条件
And then again, there is the fact that we are streamlined.	还有，我们身体的流线型形态
It's never been done.	根本从来就没有所谓的研究调查
Of course they don't believe it, but they like it."	当然他们都不相信它，但喜欢它
History is strewn with the cases when they've all got it wrong.	历史上有很多例子是大多数人都错了
Ultimately one of three things is going to happen.	最终，至少以下三样事之一将会发生
It was not the savanna, it was not the water, it was this!"	不是草原，不是水中，是这个！
And I think the same thing will happen here.	我想，相同点事情将会发生
And we can move forward from there, and really get somewhere.	之后我们以此为契机最终到达一个
So if it's going to come and it's going to happen, what's holding it up?	所有这是会发生的有什么阻力呢？
And it's not easy to change their minds.	想要改变他们的想法是很不容易的
I don't know quite where this diktat comes from.	我不知道如此的勒令是从哪里而来
Are you a virgin? Virgin?	你还是一个处男吗？处男？
And they said that I could just type in "What was I going to say next?"	他们说我能打出我将要说出的话。
Needless to say, I was able to leave my job.	不必说，我只能丢下我的工作啦
And I have to say that it's not all me this year.	我不得不说，今年这可不全是我。
And I gotta say that, you know, it's really, really great to be here.	我不得不说，它在这里做得非常棒！
"Ah, the first time that I made love to a rock shrimp ..."	我第一次爱上了一只石虾。
Look, I'll move around and say some things.	看，我四处在走，还说些什么呢
It's the third in the series.	这只是一系列中的第三部。
I'm hoping it's going to do well this year.	我希望它今年能表现好一些。
Do you have a preference? Good choice.	你有什么喜好没有？好的选择。
In other words, it's a helping tool.	换句话说，一种辅助工具。
You actually put action to the issues you care about.	你确实对你关心的问题付出很多
Face to face would work, but it's hard to set it up.	面对面也许有用但这实在太难安排了
It's hard to get the context and actually get the communication to work.	往往很难得到有效的回应和沟通
And it is critical that you actually handwrite your letter.	最重要的是你要亲笔写这封信
Ad hominem attacks will get you nowhere.	人身攻击会让你失去回旋余地
You're the safe place to come in to.	你成为了可以投靠的安全地带
First of all, you send the original to the district office.	首先，你把原件寄到本地邮局
This is a shot from the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel.	这个镜头是在炮台隧道捕捉到的
Voice 1: I was in Honolulu, Hawaii. Voice 2: I was in Cairo, Egypt.	我在夏威夷檀香山我在埃及开罗
My business partner told me to turn on the television.	我的生意伙伴让我打开电视机
You can see the relationships between the different names themselves.	你能清楚看出不同名字之间的关联
And I tend to be a person who thinks too much and talks too little.	我是那种想的较多说的较少的人
So I make other hats as well.	接下来我继续做了其他的帽子
It physically carves out conversation space for one.	它为你制造了一个私密的谈话空间
And how are they transformed by wearing it?	而他们通过带上它又会有怎样的改变
So this particular device is called the Gut Listener.	这个特别的装置叫做肠道监听器
And some of these are actually meant to mediate experiences.	还有一些装置实际上是用来协调的
Because there seems to be an issue.	因为这似乎已经成为一桩事件——
And this has really gotten me thinking about this experience of the initial encounter.	这不禁让我想起了我最初的经历
When I meet a glacier for the very first time, what do I do?	当我第一次见到冰川时我该怎么做
I really just don't even know how to say hello.	我甚至都不知道如何向冰川问个好
Do I carve a message in the snow?	是需要我在雪里画出个消息吗
And I was really struck by how much it affected me.	它对我的影响有多大使我很震惊
These are initial musings for this project.	这些都是对于这个项目的初步思索
This is what a five-meter rise in sea levels would look like.	这个就是海平面升高5米后的景象。
These problems are both technically solvable.	这些问题在技术上是可以解决的。
There are only a few species that can do it.	只有很少的一些物种可以做到。
But it is a gross distortion of reality.	但这是对现实极大的歪曲。
Do you know why they do this?	你们知道他们为什么要这样做？
It's as though the moral electromagnet is affecting us too.	被这个"道德电磁体"改变了。
These changes are detailed in many books.	有很多书讨论了这些变化的细节。
I'm just going to group them into three broad classes here.	我就干脆把它们都归到三个大类里。
They don't move their families to the District.	他们并没有把家搬到到华盛顿特区，
Because actually, we do face this situation.	实际上这正是我们所面临的。
So here's another asteroid.	下面是另一颗"小行星"。
Whites are headed that way too.	白人也在朝这个方向发展。
Okay, almost all of you.	很好，几乎所有人都举手了。
Common ground is often very hard to find.	其实共同利益是很难找到的。
This is something we can do.	我们确实能够做一些事情去改变。
But are conservatives happy about this?	那保守派人士愿意看到这事发生吗？
They're made using Victorian technologies.	就是都使用维多利亚时代的技术
This is not sustainable.	所以这不是可持续发展的。
But they don't exist. So I'm having to make them.	但这种材料并不存在，我要创造它们
That means we're generating them from scratch.	也就是说，我们要凭空创造。
It is able to move around its environment.	它可以在自己的环境中移动；
It can follow chemical gradients.	被化学浓度高的地方吸引；
So here we are. These are protocells, patterning their environment.	看这些原生细胞能模仿周围的环境
We don't know how they do that yet.	我们还不知道它们是怎么做到这些的
They are quite brittle. So you've only got a part of one there.	它们很脆，我们只能弄到一部分
Now a block of limestone, in itself, isn't particularly that interesting.	现在做成了一块砖头很有意思吧。
Maybe they could extract carbon dioxide.	也许它们可以提取二氧化碳。
Would it give this block of limestone new properties?	这会给这石灰砖新的特性吗？
Well, most likely it would. It might be able to grow.	最有可能的就是它可以生长。
So, one of these examples would of course be the historic city of Venice.	这些例子都像威尼斯一样。
Now, this is the very interesting part.	这是非常有意思的一个部分。
So I'm a woman with chronic schizophrenia.	我是一个患有慢性精神分裂症的女人
That's not to say that I've remained clear of all psychiatric struggles.	但是这并不代表我没有精神上的挣扎
For a week or more, I had barely eaten.	我有一个星期没怎么吃东西了
My face looked and felt like a mask.	我感觉自己的脸是一张面具
Crumbling world, word, voice.	摇摇欲坠的世界，词，声音
Let's start with the definition of schizophrenia.	让我们从精神分裂的定义开始把，
Delusions and hallucinations are hallmarks of the illness.	妄想和幻觉是这个病的标志
Imagine having a nightmare while you're awake.	想象以下在清醒的情况下做噩梦
'Memos are visitations,' I informed them.	"备忘录是探访"，我告诉他们
'Come to the Florida sunshine bush.	"来到佛罗里达阳光和灌木
'I think someone's infiltrated my copies of the cases,' I said.	"我觉得有人进入了我的案件"我说
This episode led to my first hospitalization in America.	这次发病让我第一次在美国住院了，
This incident resulted in my involuntary hospitalization.	这个事情导致了我被强制住院
During the next year, I would spend five months in a psychiatric hospital.	在第二年，我又在医院里待了五个月
My motto was the less medicine, the less defective.	我的理念是服药越少,瑕疵就越少
All around me I sensed evil beings poised with daggers.	在我周围我感觉到了拿了匕首的恶魔
'Head explosions and people trying to kill.	"头破血流,人们试图杀戮,
"'I give life and I take it away.	"我创造生命然后我拿走他们,
I could have easily ended up there or on the streets myself.	我当初可以轻松地沦落到大家上
So would I take the pill? In an instant.	那么我会不会吃掉那个药片了?
As a boy, I loved cars.	作为一个男孩儿，我很喜欢汽车。
It's the perfect driving mechanism.	它是一个完美的驾驶机器。
You could regain this time.	你可以重新获得这些时间。
This is happening all over the country.	国内到处都是这样的情形。
How did we get here?	我们是怎样走到今天这一步的呢？
So they have no incentive to conserve.	因此他们没有动力去保护水源。
Okay. Now I'm going to change gears here.	好了。现在我要改变一下方式。
He gets paid to leave the water in the stream.	他受雇让水呆在溪流中的。
This guy's measuring the water that this leaves in the stream.	他在测量保留在溪流中的水流。
The brewers pay to restore water to the stream.	啤酒厂出钱恢复河流中的水源。
You can't be a feminist who's also interested in fashion.	做女权主义者就不能追逐时髦
Actually, he was meditating on compassion.	实际上，他在冥想关于恻隐之心
Compassion is fun.	怀有恻隐之心是有意思的事
What if compassion is also good for business?	如果它也可以带来经济效益呢？
Fortunately, I didn't have to look very far.	幸运的是，我并没有找太久
Google is a company born of idealism.	谷歌是一个理想主义的企业
There is the cognitive component, which is, "I understand you."	其二是认知成分即，"我理解你。"
So what has this got to do with business leadership?	那么这与企业领导力有什么关系呢？
And he calls them "Level 5 leaders."	他将这样的领导成为"五级领袖"
These are leaders who are highly ambitious for the greater good.	这些领袖人物追求尽善尽美
In other words, compassion is the way to grow Level 5 leaders.	换言之恻隐之心可以培养五星级领导
It makes us a highly effective company.	它促使我们建立高效的企业
In our experience, there are three ingredients.	根据我们的经验有三大成分
And he considers himself one of the inmates.	他把自己也当做其中的囚犯之一
And this creates the foundation for emotion intelligence.	这也为情感智能建立了根基。
The second step is developing self-knowledge and self-mastery.	第二部是培养自知和自控能力
So it's just a place where there was no rule of law.	所以柬埔寨根本没有法制可言
But Cambodia is not alone.	但并不只是柬埔寨是这样的
Prosecutors were perfectly trained.	上面说检察官也会接受完善的培训。
And in my idea, heaven is satisfied curiosity.	愚见则是天堂就是好奇心得到满足。
And a lot of nationalism came in.	而爱国热情也在那个时候流行起来。
And New York has another kind of knack for contemporary art.	而纽约对现代艺术有着另一种偏好。
And then they make a little tent for the baby.	然后他们能为孩子做个小的帐篷。
It was beautiful -- it was called Personal Skies.	很漂亮，它名字是"个人天空"。
It's a suit for civil disobedience.	这是一个为非暴力反抗设计的外套。
Sometimes hammer-on.	有时候，设计师还会让你拿起大锤。
I think that this is a strange moment.	我想这是一个奇怪的时刻。
We're not the only ones.	但并不是只有我们是这样的。
Now, why is that a problem?	那么，为什么这是个问题呢
A typical disaster story: disease, corruption, poverty.	一个典型的灾难性故事疾病腐败贫穷
And I want to tell you that this is my story, OK?	接下来我想讲的是我的故事
And it's the story of many of the Africans who are here.	也是许多在场的非洲人的故事
You know, when things were good, we had eggs and sausages.	日子好的时候我们有鸡蛋有香肠
When things were bad, we had porridge.	日子不好的时候我们只有粥了
In Kenya, we have an entrance exam to go into high school.	在肯尼亚我们上高中有个入学考试
And there's national schools, which are like the best schools, and provincial schools.	国立学校是最好的学校省立的也是
And I'm pretty much the one who figured it out, because I was a nerd.	以至于我是自己努力想出来的
And so I went on to Google, Cryptococcal meningitis, you know.	于是我上谷歌搜索隐球菌脑膜炎
He had to be on that pill for the rest of his life.	他不能不依靠那个药片持续余生
He got sick again. He got sick on a Friday.	他的病再次发作了，在某一个星期五
The hospital put him on a water drip for three days.	医院把我父亲安排在水槽旁三天
And he died when the ambulance was coming to the hospital to take him.	他死了，当时救护车正要载他去医院
And I just wanted to personalize that.	我只想把非洲人的形象更私人化
I was actually crying during his presentation.	我在他的演讲的时候哭了起来
And this is an example, you know, blogging is one way of doing that.	你知道的写博客就是其中一个方法
Swahili is spoken by about 50 million people in East Africa.	斯瓦西里是东非一个5千万人的国家
He's the only African who's contributing to this.	他也是唯一一个非洲投稿人
Why are we not generating our own content?	我们为什么不自己更新内容？
But the point I'm trying to make, though, is that it's not enough for us to criticize.	但我还是想说仅仅批评是不够的
Everything else on there is a labor of love.	其他的劳力付出都是出于爱
We've manually entered all the data there.	我们几乎手动输入了所有的数据
And we as Africans need to start challenging our leaders.	我们非洲人需要挑战我们的领导人
You know, they're not going to change just out of nowhere.	他们是不会无缘无故改变什么的
And what is it about our society that is generating leaders that we don't like?	如果产生的领导是我们不喜欢的呢？
And when I talk about my ideas, they're like, "BBut it's not scalable, you know.	当我谈到自己的想法时他们就退缩
An example. This man changed my life.	举个例子。有个男人改变了我的生活
And he was like, "Why? You know, we don't need another lawyer in the United States."	他问为什么美国并不缺少律师
And he said, "Look, you can get into Harvard, you're that good, OK?	他说我可以进哈佛他说我足够的好
And if they don't admit you, they're the ones who are messed up."	如果哈佛不录取我，他们就错了
We just need a push.	我们需要的仅仅是一个动力
And they can have the possibility of transcending the circumstances under which they were born.	他们有可能超越他们出生时的环境
That's one thing you Americans take for granted, you know?	这一点是美国人认为理所当然的
I know what I have just said is simply not obvious.	我知道我这个说法也许费解
I used to be a marathon runner.	我曾经是一个马拉松运动员
It was honesty and transparency that brought us together.	是真诚和透明把我们聚在一起
The culture of giving and doing good has become contagious.	给与和为善的文化是十分有感染力的
Change-makers and future leaders have been created.	变革者和未来领导人已经出现
I believe these are the building blocks for future peace.	我深信这些是未来和平的基础
I had absolutely no idea what was going to happen next.	我完全不知道下一步将会发生什么
So at that time I was planning a road trip.	那时候我正在计划一次公路旅行
This is a place where my friend, Abhishek Sen was interning.	我朋友阿布希谢克当时正在这里实习
So Abhishek actually made me wait.	我当时等了阿布希谢克好一会儿
He explained this meant severe internal bleeding.	他说这其实就是严重的内出血
So why was this woman dying?	那么为什么这个女人会死呢？
So the whole nature of this thing completely shocked me.	这件事从根本上彻底震惊了我
This is a $10,000 machine which was available in Mumbai.	这台价值1万美元的机器只在孟买有
She is really the center of the health care system.	她就是医疗保障系统的中心
You might have seen a little light inside of it.	你可能已经看见里面这个小灯了
There's a bunch of very exciting stuff which we are doing.	我们还在做许多有趣的玩意儿
I would love to tell you a little bit more about it.	我非常乐意多跟你们谈谈这些
Our students our worth it.	我们的学生，我们得珍惜。
So these are my daughters.	这是我的两个女儿的照片。
Yeah. Why.	对。他们喜欢问这个问题。
How will they grow this curiosity?	他们会怎样来培养她的好奇心呢？
I am in charge of making this country's food secure.	我负责确保卡塔尔的食品保障。
None of the glamour that you see today existed.	根本不像你今天所见到的这般辉煌。
Resources weren't there to develop them.	而是匮乏的资源不允许城市的发展。
What did it do?	石油到底发挥了什么作用？
Because we lived scattered.	因为我们过去过着散居的生活。
Water consumption has increased to 430 liters.	人均用水量达到四百三十升，
From having no water whatsoever to consuming water to the highest degree, higher than any other nation.	从水资源匮乏到世界顶级用水国。
Cities were totally wiped out because of the lack of water.	城市由于缺水而荡然无存。
This is history being made in this region.	这是这一地域从前的历史。
Energy is the key factor here. It changed everything.	能源是关键因素，它改变了一切。
So that is our lake, if you can see it.	因此，石油就像我们的无形的湖泊。
That is how you all happen to use and enjoy water.	多亏了它，大家才能有幸用上淡水。
And so that number also demands food.	随之而来的是对食物需求的增长。
They start eating more meat and so on and so forth.	人们开始食用更多的肉，等等等等。
This is the situation in Qatar, for those who don't know.	卡塔尔不为人知的情况是，
We only have two days of water reserve.	我们仅有两天的淡水储备。
So if we're going to need energy, what sort of energy?	那么我们到底需要哪种能源呢？
A depletable energy? Fossil fuel?	一种耗竭性能源？化石燃料？
Or should we use something else?	或许我们可以用其它能源？
Without it we can't do anything.	没有这些，一切都是空谈。
So that's what we are planning to do.	这就是我们规划要做的事。
Curiosity killed the cat. You take the bet.	好奇心杀死猫。你接受挑战
Next thing you know, two guys in white appear.	接下来，两个身着白衣的人出现。
Well, people power has been there for a while.	人民的力量并不是什么新生现象。
It helped Gandhi kick the Brits from India.	它帮助甘地把英国人赶出印度。
What is the average age of Egyptians? 24.	埃及的平均年龄是多少？24岁。
How long was Mubarak in power? 31.	穆巴拉克在位多少年了？31年。
It seems that Generation Epsilon is coming.	年轻一代正在走上政治舞台。
Now let me set another example.	现在请允许我再举一个例子。
Guess what? That was the day of his defeat.	你猜结果怎样？他的末日就此到来。
One single act of violence can literally destroy your movement.	一个暴力行为就可以毁掉整个运动。
First, you start small.	第一，从小规模的运动开始。
It's only 200 of us in this room.	今天出席的观众大约两百人。
They're very useful in a violent oppression.	这种策略在暴力镇压中特别有效。
So it works like in a video game.	它的运作方式很像电子游戏。
The real show starts when the police appears.	警察的出现掀起了真正的高潮。
But here is also the bad news.	然而因特网也有它的局限。
Are they going to become the world wave?	他们会引领世界的潮流吗？
Now, what [do] the statistics have?	数据显示出什么样的发展趋势呢？
And when I walked in, she was already at the table.	当我进去的时候，她已经在餐桌上了
And we're going to be talking about 600, 700 people."	那就是600人、700人的事了
Why did you bring this up? Have you lost your mind?	你怎么会提这个？你昏了头了吗？
Your sisters would be perfect for this."	你的姐妹这方面是很完美的。"
But I want to talk about what I've learned.	但是我想讲一下我所学到的。
There's two things that I've learned in the last year.	在过去的一年我学到两件事，
The first is vulnerability is not weakness.	第一件事，脆弱不是弱点。
How many of you think of vulnerability and weakness synonymously?	有多少人认为脆弱和软弱是一回事？
To create is to make something that has never existed before.	创造就是要制造出前所未有的东西。
There's nothing more vulnerable than that.	没有什么比这个更脆弱的了。
Adaptability to change is all about vulnerability.	适应改变的能力全都和脆弱有关。
At this point parents are, like, pulling their children close.	这时侯父母们都拉紧他们的孩子
And she looks back and does this, "I know."	然后她看着我就这样，"了解"
I learned about these things from studying shame.	我是通过研究羞耻而学到这些。
And so I want to walk you in to shame.	因此我想带大家走进羞耻感。
And everybody just burst into applause, and they were like "Yes!"	于是全场爆发出掌声，"真棒！"
This is like the failure conference.	这就像是一个失败者的会议。
Because very few people here are afraid to fail.	因为这里几乎没有人是害怕失败的。
I've failed miserably, many times.	我曾经败的很惨，很多次。
I know those things that happened to you growing up.	我知道你从小到大的糗事。
The thing to understand about shame is it's not guilt.	需要理解的是羞耻不是内疚。
There's a huge difference between shame and guilt.	羞耻和内疚之间有巨大的差别。
It's uncomfortable, but it's adaptive.	它不舒服，但是是可以调节的。
Shame is one, do not be perceived as what?	羞耻是一样东西，不要被认为什么？
So I started interviewing men and asking questions.	于是我开始采访男人向他们提问。
Shame is an epidemic in our culture.	羞耻感是我们文化中的一种流行病，
And so I'll leave you with this thought.	所以我想把这些思考留给大家。
But the truth is that never happens.	不过真相是这永远不会发生。
We want to be with you and across from you.	我们想和你在一起和你面对面。
So thank you all very much. I really appreciate it.	非常感谢大家。真的很感激。
It is a dream of mankind to fly like a bird.	像鸟儿一样飞翔是人类的一个梦想。
So we bring a team together.	所以我们组建起一个团队。
So maybe we'll try it once -- to fly a SmartBird.	我们来尝试一次放飞智能鸟吧。
And if we now beat up and down ...	如果让这翅膀上下拍打的话
It really is a story of Dr. Venkataswamy.	这是维卡塔丝维敏博士的故事。
So she is just one amongst the millions who are blind.	她只是成千上万盲人中的一个。
And the irony is that they don't need to be.	讽刺的是他们本可以避免失明。
Doctor, whatever you say, I accept it.	博士，无论你说什么，我都会接受．
The problem of blindness is gone.	失明的问题也就不是问题了．
They receive comprehensive eye exams.	他们会收到一个全面的医学检查。
They do one thing at a time. They do it extremely well.	她们一心一意。完成的十分出色。
I think that has been a big savior, even now.	我想这是我们的救星，直到现在。
And what we did was a couple of very counter-intuitive things.	所以我们做了一些反直觉的事情。
So we're really comparing apples to apples.	我们真的是用苹果来比较苹果。
Now, how do you create compassion?	现在，你们怎样创造关怀？
There are a bit harder issues.	这样就是更难一点的问题。
And I'm sure people in this crowd can probably find the solutions to these.	我肯定在座的会有人找到答案。
It is ourselves we are healing.	我们疗救的最终也是我们自己。
It's rich, it tastes good, it feels good, it smells good.	可谓是酸甜苦辣，百味齐全啊。
You can't see it, but it's there."	虽然你看不见，可就是在那边。"
And you can feel that because it's thicker at that edge.	因为你感到那一角比较厚。
Think of a hamster in the pocket.	假若将一只仓鼠放在口袋中，
And you can tell, it's relaxed right now.	你可以感觉到，它正在休息中。
And I think making it physical is a good way to do that.	这是将手机实体化的几种办法。
It was like having an enormous new toy.	那时好像拥有了一个崭新的玩具
Just being out on the street was exhilarating.	就连出门都变得如此令人高兴
A part of me had become alienated from myself.	我内心的一部分渐渐疏远了自己
For me, the wheelchair becomes a vehicle for transformation.	对我来说，轮椅成为了一种转化工具
And then worked for the Jerry Brown administration.	然后就职于杰里布朗政府。
1,000 years ago this is what the world looked like.	一千年前的世界是什么样子。
Subsistence farming is drying up basically.	农田没人管，因为人都迁移到了城市
Famine mostly is a rural event now.	现在饥荒大多是农村的事情。
There are things they care about.	贫民窟的居民关心的是这些事情。
And this is where we can help.	而这正是我们可以帮助的方面。
And you go to a nice dense place like this slum in Mumbai.	你去一个像孟买这样的密集贫民区。
The main event is, these are not people crushed by poverty.	关键是，人们不是被贫困折磨，
They're helping each other do it.	他们互相帮助做到这一点。
And one of the main events are these ad-hoc schools.	主要活动之一是这些特设学校。
In this case, supply right next to demand.	在这种情况下，供应需求紧密相连。
We are learning about how dense proximity can be.	我们正在研究这密集邻近性。
So the event is: we're a city planet. That just happened.	我们都在地球城市生活。这情况转变
Where do you think the action is going to be?	你认为这些转变将在哪发生？
Shift of subject. Quickly drop by climate.	我要转移话题了。简单谈谈气候。
Shift to the power situation.	好，我们再谈谈能源问题。
Coal is what is causing the climate problems.	煤炭是造成气候问题的原因。
And does nuclear really compete with coal?	核电能可以和煤电能竞争吗？
These things are way smaller. They're much more adaptable.	这些就小得多，并且非常容易安装
And biotech is moving rapidly in Africa, at last.	最后，生物技术正快速在非洲发展。
Basically the news is going to keep getting more scary.	事实上所知的会越来越可怕。
Like cyclones coming up toward Bangladesh.	又如袭击孟加拉国的龙卷风。
I just did something I've never done before.	我刚做了些之前从未做过的事。
This is the boat we were on, by the way.	顺便提一下，这是我们乘坐的船。
It's still working its way up the food chain.	它仍在不断向食物链上方产生影响。
Now this shouldn't come as a surprise to us.	现在我们对这应该不会感到奇怪了。
Thus the title "Silent Spring."	这就是标题的来源"寂静的春天。"
And you actually don't have a lot of options.	实际上你没有太多的选择。
"The Gulf of Mexico is a very big ocean.	"墨西哥湾是个非常辽阔的海洋。
Now the problem is that the story was always a lie.	现在问题是这类故事总是谎言。
The twin message is as comforting as it is mad.	这矛盾的信息让人欣慰也让人疯狂。
Ignore those creeping fears that we have finally hit the wall.	忽视这些蔓延的恐惧我们终会碰壁。
This assessment, unfortunately, is far too optimistic.	不幸的是，这一评估太过乐观了。
You can't just drill a hole and pump it out.	不能仅仅是钻个空就能把它抽出来。
My point is that this is not oil drilling.	我的观点是这不是石油开采，
But, of course, our secular religion is technology.	当然，我们世俗的信仰是科技。
An escape hatch has been reached.	我们已经找到一个逃脱方案，
We badly need some new stories.	我们极度需要些新的故事。
DH: How about if I try first and then decide?	放弃我先尝试然后再决定，怎么样？
He actually assumes more of the danger in this.	他实际上做的比这个更危险
Having a little bit of Richard time. That's nice, that's good.	来一点理查德的时间，真好，很好
DH: Please hold my wrist, will you. BF: Yeah, hold this a minute.	DH:请握住我的手腕，保持一会儿
DH: Let's jump this way, though.	DH:　让我们沿着这个方向来跳
The design of the body is a whole different thing.	身体的设计—完全不同的事情。
DH: There's still one more by my foot.	还有一个在我的脚的附近，
DH: That's a pretty good setup, Richard.	这是一个不错的机会，理查德。
DH: How about that? I'll do it again.	刚才怎么样？噢，再尝试一次。
BF: From my foot, I'll attempt to kick the seventh club. Here we go.	从我的脚上，我会踢起第七个棒子。
BF: From my foot, the kick up in the seven.	从我的脚上，踢起第七个。
DH: Whenever you're ready there, big guy.	大个子，无论你什么时候准备好。
The reason he never made any of them, he's a classic nerd.	原因就是他是个典型的书呆子
Along comes this woman, Ada Lovelace.	当然还有这个女人,艾达勒夫蕾丝
Now, some people call her the first programmer.	现在呢,一些人把她叫第一个程序员
This is a program written in a particular style.	这是一个特定格式下的程序
So this is what I call Lovelace's Leap.	这就是我说的勒夫蕾丝的飞越
Now, of course, Babbage's machine was entirely mechanical.	当然,巴贝奇的机器是纯机械的
There is in a sense a computing essence.	在这之中有一个计算的本质
One was the scanning of Babbage's archive.	一部分就是扫描巴贝奇的档案
I have to kill a Frenchman when I come back at home?	当我回到家时，我要自杀吗？
We know about the end of oil.	我们都知道石油会走向衰竭。
Glaciers are very important for the life on earth.	冰川对地球上的生命来说也很重要。
One fifth of human kind depend on fish to live.	五分之一的人类是依靠捕鱼而生活。
We don't want to believe what we know.	我们还是对此视而不见听而不闻。
I always show my pictures in the street.	我总是在街头展示我的照片。
It was obvious to me to do another work.	很明显我要去做另一个项目。
We have done five thousand interviews.	我们已经完成了5000次访谈。
Thank you.	"爸爸，妈妈，谢谢你们。
I got the easy part.	我只是身体上有小缺陷而已。
You don't know me. I don't know you.	你不认识我，我不认识你。
How can we make it all by ourselves?	我们就如同自己人一样彼此对待。
The name of the movie is "Home" -- "Maison."	它的名字为"家园"。"家"。
It is about the state of the planet.	它是一部关于地球变化的电影。
These plants, several hundred million years old.	这些植物都已有几百万年的历史。
Our life is tied to the well-being of our planet.	我们的生活依赖于我们地球的福祉。
We depend on water, forests, deserts, oceans.	我们依靠水、森林、沙漠、海洋、
We're only trying to improve our lives.	我们只是想改善我们的生活。
But the wealth gaps are growing wider.	但是，贫富差距在日益加剧。
We know that solutions are available today.	我们知道有可行的解决方案。
But it is not a normal movie.	这部电影和一般的电影不一样。
There is no business on this movie.	这部电影是没有任何商业行为。
That was all done on a machine that looks like this.	这些都是由这样个机器完成的
And then we bring that into software, and we reassemble it and we tell you what the story is.	然后用软件重新合成并给你解读
And we know this based on the machines that are being placed.	这是依据被配置的机器估算的
What does this mean for medicine?	这对药学来说什么意义呢？
Unfortunately, treated again with surgery and chemotherapy.	不幸的是，再次接受手术和化疗
Today it's $10,000. Next year it's $1,000.	如今是一万美元，明年会是一千
So here's little Nick -- likes Batman and squirt guns.	这是小尼克他喜欢蝙蝠侠和水枪
But the gene that regulates that down is broken.	但这个基因的此种功能出现问题
Consumer applications for genomics, they will flourish.	基因组学的消费需求将大大增加
Personalized genomic massage anyone?	有人想要个人定制的基因学按摩吗？
And then she challenges all of her competitors to do the same.	然后她要求其他的竞争者也这么做
Do you think it would have helped John McCain?	你觉得这会帮到约翰･麦凯恩？
Not hard to imagine. My company has software that does this right now.	不难想像，我的公司就有这样的软件
How many fathers in the room? Raise your hands.	这屋子里有多少父亲？请举手
So actually how do we harvest this bone marrow?	那么，目前我们怎样采集骨髓呢？
Hands it back to me. And we do that again and again.	然后再递给我针管。我们如此重复
And there is probably a better way to do this.	可能有更好的方法去采集。
Our standard see-through patient.	我们通常的患者一看就知。
And our team members developed this technology.	我们团队开发了这一技术。
Whoa, dude. Check out those killer equations. Sweet.	大家来看看这些吓人的方程式爽啊
It turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral.	人们发现能在珊瑚身上学到不少东西
Coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal.	珊瑚是一种极其漂亮而不平常的动物
But in the other branch of reality, he remains alive.	但在另一种可能中他会活下来
These realities are experienced separately by each individual.	每个个体只能经历其中的一种情形
But this does not mean everything happens.	但是这并不代表任何事情都会发生
Quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized.	量子力学告诉我们一切皆有可能
The electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons.	电磁力通过光子和带电物质相互作用
You can blame Murray Gell-Mann for these names -- they're his fault.	这都是默里盖尔曼的错名字是他起的
But the greatest mystery is what else we might see.	但最大的奥秘在于我们还能看到什么
These particles also have anti-particles, which have opposite charges.	粒子还有极性相反的反粒子。
It makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass.	通过给弱子较大的质量使弱力更加弱
Nature always keeps a perfect balance.	大自然总是会保持完美的平衡
So these patterns of charges are not just pretty.	所以这些电荷的图案不仅漂亮
We can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force.	我们还可以根据重力导入两个载荷
Some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments.	其中的一些粒子在实验中很难看到
They sit on top of one another in the standard charge space.	在标准载荷空间上他们会彼此叠加
This Lie group is a smooth, curved shape with 248 dimensions.	李群是光滑曲线形的248维空间
This E8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots.	这个E8图案有着深厚的数学根基
This process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in.	这个探索过程是一个奇妙的探险
And, of course, bad for me personally.	而且在一定程度上对我不利
But predicting how nature works is a very risky game.	但推测大自然的运作总是很冒险的
That's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts.	理论物理就是这样失败是很常见的
I've tried the best I can to live a balanced life.	我已经尽可能保持生活的平衡了
I've chosen a very unusual life.	我选择了一种不同寻常的生活
So I'm very happy to have been invited here to TED.	很高兴能被邀请到这儿演讲
And this is why I use the analogy to coral.	这也是我为什么拿珊瑚作类比。
And it was pretty extraordinary, way back then.	回顾过去，这条路实在不同寻常
And of course, behavior doesn't fossilize.	当然，行为没有在化石里体现
Every chimpanzee has his or her own personality.	每个黑猩猩都有他/她自己的个性
Chimpanzees don't have a spoken language. We've talked about that.	黑猩猩没有语言，我们以前提到过
And they swagger and they throw rocks.	他们也虚张声势地恐吓，或者仍石头
They are very territorially aggressive.	这些攻击大多是为了争夺地盘
Were they interested in conservation? Absolutely not.	他们对自然保护感兴趣吗？一点也不
And everywhere there were these terrible problems.	每一地都有这些糟糕的问题
The air that we breathe that often poisons us.	我们呼吸的空气经常毒害我们
The mangroves are being cut down; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse.	红树被砍倒海啸等影响日益加重
The Roots and Shoots groups all choose three projects.	"根与芽"小组都选三个方案
Of course, they're planting trees. They're growing organic vegetables.	当然，他们种树，他们种有机蔬菜
Doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves.	实施这些方案让他们重塑自我
Once again, they're useful members of society.	再一次，他们成为社会上的有用一员
And then talking about renewable energy -- desperately important.	然后谈论了可再生能源，非常重要
Do we care about the planet for our children?	我们为孩子关心过地球吗？
Or my grandchild, or whatever it is.	或者我的孙子，或别的什么。
People like this are so inspirational.	像这样的人是多么激动人心
She said it's helped her to do what she's doing.	她说它使她得以做现在的工作
And there was a designated kicker every day.	也是使得我变成了公认的出气桶
And I looked up and said, "Who is that man?"	我抬起头来问，"这个人是谁？"
And we had a rough go of it.	我跟父母别扭了一段时间。
And they came into my room the next morning.	第二天早晨他们出现在了我的门口
I did not want to have to have hand-me-down books.	我希望我们能够有很多新的课本
And the real question is, what lessons did we learn?	重要的是，我们从中学到了什么？
And we produced a number of people in law, all the way to the humanities.	我们培养了大量的人文和法律人才
A lot of our students get into theater.	我们有很多学生投入了演艺事业
And so, the real question is, what is the challenge?	所以真正的问题是，根源在哪里？
Well a part of it, of course, is K-12.	当然，大学之前的教育很重要
It's an American challenge. Half of you in the room.	这是美国面对的难题。一半的人
We need to find ways of making it happen.	我们需要找到合适的途径帮助他们
Nice story. Give him a hand for that too.	精彩的故事，给他一点掌声
Test scores are important, but they're not the most important thing.	分数很重要，但是并不是最重要的
She never missed a day of school, K-12.	她从小到大从来没有缺过一次课
Big hand for her. Big hand for her.	为她鼓掌，请给她一点掌声
Students are not taught to work in groups.	学生没有获得团队合作方面的教育
They had food they had packed out.	他们自带干粮，把实验室挤满了
They knew they were working on AIDS research.	他们知道他们在研究的是艾滋病防治
And he said, "It doesn't get any better than that."	而他说，"没有比这更美好的了。"
He's not taking notes. We need to talk to him."	他不做笔记。我们要跟他聊聊
Because so many students are bored in class.	太多这些专业的学生觉得课程无聊了
And then he said something that gives me goosebumps.	接下来他说的话让我震撼不已
It's ephemeral just like us."	塑料就像我们人类一样短命。"
And what we're finding is that a lot of it is in the marine environment.	我们发现有很多塑料漂浮于大海。
We've got to go out there and clean this thing up."	我们要去那里并清理这些塑料。"
So in looking at that, I also realized that I was really angry.	看看这个，我也知道我非常生气。
The system tracks the four significant fingers.	系统会跟踪四个主要的手指。
This is a more controversial one.	接下来是一个有争议的功能。
And his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either.	他的女朋友肯定是一肚子牢骚。
But it's not perfect yet, it's very much a work in progress.	但是，这个设备目前还不完善。
And yet, it feels natural to us now.	现在，我们已经感觉很自然了。
At the time, we knew that it was political.	那时，我知道这是政治原因。
So they introduced me to five families.	于是他们就把我介绍给5个家庭。
She was the only mother in the group.	她是这个团体中唯一的母亲。
I know she really cried for her son.	我了解她的确为她儿子痛哭不已。
But she knows where he is.	但是她起码知道他在哪里。
My son, I don't know where he is.	我儿子，我甚至不知道他在何方。
I talk against violence, against terrorism.	我反对暴力，反对恐怖主义。
What did we want from each other?	我们彼此间想得到些什么？
So, Aicha, do you have a couple of words for conclusion?	所以，艾莎，你有要总结的话吗？
What if it was from a source like this?	如果是出自这样的水源呢？
And I think I've worked out why.	不过我觉得我搞清楚了这是为什么，
That really stuck with me.	那场景让我久久不能忘怀。
People were shooting each other on the streets for TV sets and water.	人们为了电视和水在街上用枪火拼。
That's when I decided I had to do something.	那时，我就决定我要做些什么了。
Okay, now for the science bit.	好了，现在来讲点科学背景。
The smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers.	最小的细菌就有大约200纳米。
Okay, I'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration.	好了，我将要给你们一个示范。
So -- someone's done that up.	哦，有人已经把这放好了。
That's not dirty enough. Let's just stir that up a little bit.	那还不够脏，让我们搅一下。
That is safe, sterile drinking water.	这是安全的，无菌的可饮用水。
Pop the cartridge out. Pop a new one in.	把净化盒取出，装进新的一个。
Traditionally, in a crisis, what do we do?	以往，在一个危机中，我们怎么做？
Diseases spread. More resources are required.	疾病会传播，更多的资源会被需要。
Now, it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work.	这不需要一个自然灾害让这来工作。
Or we could use one of these.	或者我们可以用这个东西。
They can get it from a source nearby.	他们可以在附近的水源地取得。
By the way, it happens about once every century.	顺道一提，它大概一世纪出现一次
But for us, I want to talk about three factors today.	为了我们，今天我打算谈谈三个原素
But let's talk about the shifts of power that are occurring to the world.	我们先说说发生中的权力转移
For power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation.	权力不单是横向在国与国间游走
I'm not talking about setting up some global democratic institution.	也不是成立一些全球化的民主机构
The world needs an international forum.	世界需要一个中介的国际论坛
You're beginning to see the emergence of a multi-polar world.	你开始看到多极世界的出现
Britain always played to the balance.	英国常在当中摆动促成它的平衡
Now we have to call in others.	现在，我们要邀请其他国家参与
Now we have to reach beyond the cozy circle of our Western friends.	我们要跨出西方盟友的安逸圈
Of course they are, they are a mercantilist nation.	当然是中国，他们重视商易
And here's the third factor, which is totally different.	接下来，第三个完全不同的因素
The interrelationship of nations, well it's always existed.	国与国之间的关系呀，它总是存在的
Diplomacy is about managing the interrelationship of nations.	外交便是管理国与国之间的邦交
But now we are intimately locked together.	但现在，我们亲密地锁在一起
We are all now deeply, deeply, deeply interconnected.	现在，所有人都被层层捆绑环扣
And this tells you something very important.	这现象告诉你一些非常重要的
It's your capacity to network that matters, both within your governments and externally.	在政府内外结合联网的能力
So here is Ashdown's third law.	这便是我的阿什当第三定律
You understand that in industry; governments don't.	你从工作中了解了这点但政府却不懂
You have the USDA food pyramid.	你见过农业部的食物金字塔
Should you be running marathons or doing yoga?	你应该跑马拉松，还是练瑜伽？
The problem is that we're not programmed for longevity.	问题在于，我们人类没被设为长寿，
It reminds me of my college days.	让我回想起我上大学的时候
Those cells turn themselves over once every eight years.	哈哈这些细胞每八年翻转一次
These are years that we could get.	这十二年是我们能得到的。
Their history actually goes back to about the time of Christ.	哈哈他们的历史追溯到基督时代
It's actually a Bronze Age culture that's been isolated.	是被隔离的青铜时代的文化。
And in the northern part of the main island, this is ground zero for world longevity.	中心岛屿的北部是世界长寿的起点
Once again, a plant-based diet, full of vegetables with lots of color in them.	还是植物性食物为主绿色蔬菜繁多
And they eat about eight times as much tofu as Americans do.	他们是美国人吃豆腐数量的八倍
More significant than what they eat is how they eat it.	比吃什么更重要的是如何来吃
Typically in America we've divided our adult life up into two sections.	在美国，我们把成人寿命分成两部分
And then one day, boom, we retire.	然后某一天，繁荣，然后退休。
In the Okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement.	在冲绳语言里压根没退休这个词。
They instantly knew why they woke up in the morning.	他们立马知道早晨为何而醒来。
Two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years.	这两个女性年龄差距是101岁半。
I thought that was a wonderful thought.	我认为这是个顶好的想法。
But that's because all the young people left.	但只是因为所有的年轻人都离开了。
So, we turned to the data again.	哈哈因此，我们再次依赖数据。
Adventists are conservative Methodists.	再生派论者是守旧派人物。
A "24-hour sanctuary in time," they call it.	他们称为"二十四小时至圣时间"。
In America here, life expectancy for the average woman is 80.	在美国，女人平均寿命为80岁。
They take this sanctuary in time very serious.	对待这种圣事，他们很严肃。
Adventists also tend to hang out with other Adventists.	冒险家也想与同行一同去闲逛。
This is a culture that has yielded Ellsworth Whareham.	在这种文化中诞生了埃尔斯沃斯
And on weekends he likes to put on the boards, throw up rooster tails.	周末他喜欢上舞台抛公鸡尾巴符咒
If they want to mix up a cake, they're doing it by hand.	如果想做蛋糕，就自己动手。
Each of these cultures take time to downshift.	每种文化都不慌不忙地变换。
The Sardinians pray. The Seventh-Day Adventists pray.	撒丁岛人祈祷。再生论者也祈祷。
The Okinawans have this ancestor veneration.	冲绳人有祖先祭拜的规约。
And then the foundation of all this is how they connect.	这些的根本是他们如何联系。
Exercise programs usually start in January; they're usually done by October.	练习项目通常在一月开始十月结束。
Let me show you some examples.	让我来给你们展示一些样品。
Well first of all, because I am a maker.	首先，因为我是个制造者。
Smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities.	要获得少量的智能材料是很难的。
But no, this guy isn't slowing down.	但是我前面那个人并不是在减速
You can't really directly sense the world around you.	你不能直接感受到你周围的世界
You're in this extended body.	因为你坐在车这样一个不小的空间里
Okay? And all you have to guide you are your two eyes.	对吧？你只能靠双眼来导航
You and everyone else. This is the safe way to drive.	所有人都这么做这是安全的驾驶方式
We can only watch so much.	我们看到的只有这么多而已
You may think that's impossible.	你可能会觉得这是不可能的
Cars are three-dimensional objects that have a fixed position and velocity.	汽车是三维物体位置速度都是固定的
Right? I mean, somebody's seen him.	对吧？我的意思是，有人看见过他
I mean, they're Newtonian objects.	它们可是遵从牛顿力学的物体
So how do we get there?	那么我们怎么样才能做到这一点呢
I can tell you exactly what happens.	我可以很明确的告诉你答案
And I think it's going to be a great thing.	而且我认为这是一件非常好的事
So let your car gossip about you.	所以让你的车"八卦"你吧
And I want to tell you that story.	现在我想讲给大家这个故事
It took us 11 years to become operational.	我们花了11年时间才使得计划成功
We worked hard to get all the permissions.	我们经过很多努力才得到了许可
I therefore want to encourage public interest in space."	所以我想鼓励大众对宇宙的兴趣。"
We set up a whole ER.	我们准备好了一切的急救措施
So we did a second parabola.	然后我们就做了第二次抛物飞行
Please join us in this epic adventure.	让我们一起来加入这场壮丽的探险吧
We don't want to do that to our students.	我们并不想对我们学生也这么做。
And these micro-machines power how a cell moves.	这些微型机器能让细胞移动
Enjoy the rest of the show. Thank you.	请继续欣赏接下来的表演。谢谢。
I became one of the working homeless.	我成了一个无家可归的工作者。
At first, living in the van was great.	一开始，住在车里是很不错的。
I didn't always succeed.	当然，并不是每次都成功。
I hadn't changed. My I.Q. hadn't dropped.	我并没有变。我的智商没有降低。
But I had changed somehow.	但是从某种程度上，我还是改变了，
I just wasn't drunk or high.	我只是没有喝醉或者兴奋。
Shortly after that I moved back to Tennessee.	在那之后，我很快就搬回了田纳西。
I was winning awards. I was living in my own apartment.	我得了奖，住在我自己的公寓里。
We needed to reduce the population growth rate.	我们必须降低人口增长率。
We were so much bigger than Coca-Cola in those days.	我们当时的名气比可口可乐大多了。
Like, "Mother takes the pill every night.	比如说，"妈妈每晚服避孕药。
And the kids were doing it in school too.	孩子们在学校里也有这些活动。
You get two brands, Coke and Pepsi.	有两种选择，可口可乐和百事可乐。
And then the food is either hamburger or hotdog."	可供选择的食物有汉堡包和热狗。"
And I thought a hotdog will be more symbolic.	我觉得还是热狗更具象征意义。
And so that's the case of everyone joining in.	这是所有人一同出力的结果。
So our work wasn't affected.	我们的工作没有取得成效。
So I asked them, could they help us in our fight against HIV.	我问他们是否能帮我们抗击艾滋病。
And that's when we went onto the airwaves.	就这样，我们可以在空中做宣传了。
And then we got a new prime minister soon after that.	在此之后，我们有了新一任总理。
And these are high school kids teaching high school kids.	这些高中生正在教其他高中生。
And then we went down one more step.	接下来，我们进一步采取措施。
And they loved him. You need a symbol of something.	他很受欢迎。一个代言人是必要的。
And these were the condoms that we introduced.	这些是我们生产的安全套。
But I have some to give out afterward.	我过后会把它们发给大家。
And so you can see that condoms can do so many things.	你们看，安全套实在是神通广大。
After all this time, everybody joined in.	结果，所有人都参与了进来。
90 percent of the funding came from Thailand.	百分之九十的资金都来自泰国国内。
Those are the things to be provided by the business community.	这些都必须由企业界提供。
The money goes from the company into the village via tree-planting.	资金引入到农村，村民靠种树赚钱。
And before you can borrow the money, you need to be trained.	贷款之前，你必须经过培训。
Access to credit must be a human right.	贷款必须成为一项基本人权。
And then we have silk, Thai silk.	我们还有丝绸，泰国丝绸。
Re-do the school, make it serve the community needs.	对学校进行改革，让它为社区服务。
So we have now found the weapon of mass protection.	我们现在有了大规模保护性武器。
And then, finally, that is our network.	最后，这是我们的官方网站。
So just by a show of hands, how many of you all have a robot at home?	家里有机器人的观众请举下手～
This robot can't be creepy or uncanny.	这个机器人样子不能太丑陋。
He should be friendly and cute.	他应该是很萌、很可爱的。
If I duck down, he'll follow me.	如果我弯下腰，他也会跟着我转。
If I come over here, he'll turn to follow me.	如果我来这边，他也会跟我跑。
If I come over here -- He's smart.	如果我来这边——他很聪明。
In fact, who would like to drive a robot?	现在，谁愿意现场试一下？
They change from person to person.	每个人对机器人的需求都是不同的。
I'm here to tell you a few tales of passion.	我将会在这里讲述关于激情的故事
A uniform, she said, and asked for my measurements.	制服，她回复道并向我询问我的尺寸
Heart is what drives us and determines our fate.	心能够驱使我们并决定我们的命运
Nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters.	循规蹈矩的好人不会是有趣的角色
In the green room I received my uniform.	在绿色房间中我接到了我的制服
Well, she didn't say that exactly.	她正是严格按照她所说的而做的
A place where most men would love to be.	那可是大多数男人梦寐以求的地方
Mapendo, in Swahili, means great love.	在斯瓦希里语中马培德意味着爱
I look around and I see them everywhere.	在我身边这样的身影无处不在
I have worked with women and for women all my life.	我一生都和女性也为女性而工作
They have no control over their bodies or their lives.	无法掌控自己的身体和人生
They are raped, beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity.	被强暴，殴打，有时还因受罚而被杀
Feminism is not dead, by no means.	无论如何女权主义并没有逝去
So here's another tale of passion, and this is a sad one.	我再讲一个热情但是却悲伤的故事
She risks a lot and she's terrified.	她冒了很大风险并且非常紧张
She murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation.	她做了祈祷之后就开始进行手术
At the end, the relieved patient kisses her hands.	最后，病人亲吻了她的手心
That day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth.	那一天这位卫生员拔出了很多牙齿
What kind of world do we want?	到底我们需要怎么样的世界
This is a fundamental question that most of us are asking.	这是一个我们常常扪心自问的问题
Does it make sense to participate in the existing world order?	这对已有世界秩序行得通吗？
What I fear most is power with impunity.	我最害怕的是不纯洁的力量
Abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom.	从上到下，一层层的力量滥用
Yet it's one that's rarely asked.	然而很少人会问这个问题。
And it's an escalating problem too.	这是一个越来越重要的问题
So meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand.	所以肉的消耗和城市化是共同发展的
And that's going to pose an enormous problem.	这就将引发一个很重大的问题
And more importantly, what are we going to do about it?	更重要的是,我们应该怎么做?
Because, as you can see, it was crescent shaped.	因为你可以看到它是新月形的
And in fact, that's true of every ancient city.	事实上，过去的每个城市都是如此
But of course not all of them were that small.	当然，并不是每个都是那么小的城市
Fish was, of course, coming in by river as well. Same thing.	鱼当然是从河里面打捞出来的
Which is extraordinary, really, when you think about it.	这是很特别的，真的，当你仔细想想
So all of a sudden, these animals are no longer walking into market.	一夕之间，这些动物不再走进市场
They're being slaughtered out of sight and mind, somewhere in the countryside.	他们被屠宰了在乡村的某个地方
It used to be a social event, buying and selling food.	买卖食物曾经是一种社会性的活动，
So what are we going to do about that?	所以，我们应该做点什么呢？
I believe we already live in Sitopia.	我相信我们已经住在"希托邦"里面
So if we were to do that, what might Sitopia look like?	如果这样做，希托邦会成什么样
This is where food should be in our society.	这是食物在我们社会里应有的地位
But you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this.	但想做到这样，得先有这些人
But networks, markets where food is being grown locally.	但是整体联络，食物是当地生产的
It's part of the social life of the city.	这是城市社会生活的一部分
And I think the message of this is very clear.	我认为他想传达的思想非常清晰
Because I think it's an urgent question.	因为我认为这是一个紧要的问题
I'm going to talk about the strategizing brain.	我接下来谈谈运筹帷幄的大脑。
But you can see those spikes, and they're there.	但你可以看到这些柱状，他们很突显
Boring. It's just not interesting neurally.	这很无聊。这是一个很没趣的思维。
Your intuition might tell you that too.	你的直觉也会这么告诉你吧。
You might be thinking back to your last Thanksgiving.	你也许会联想到你的上一个感恩节
Maybe if you had a chimpanzee with you.	可能你有一个黑猩猩陪着你
And we're also their closest cousin.	并且我们还是他们最亲密的亲属
They have more genetic relation to us than to gorillas.	他们与我们的相似度也远大于大猩猩
The mismatcher wants to mismatch.	而非匹配员要做的就是不匹配
They want to press the opposite screen of the chimp.	他们要按猩猩按的屏幕的另一边
So here's how game theorists look at these data.	所以这些是理论者观察到的数据
Now they get three apple cubes.	现在他们有三个苹果方块了
Finally, we changed the payoffs one more time.	最后，我们再次改变了结果
So here are some things we learned today.	所以今天我们可以在这里学习到
Often people don't really want to be compassionate.	通常人们不具有仁爱之心。
And that of course defeats the object of the exercise.	这当然违背了修行的目的。
And so we have a choice, it seems to me.	在我看来，我们现在有了个选择。
And I intend to work on this till my dying day.	我愿意至死不渝地为此而努力。
I would never have thought of putting the Charter online.	我从未设想过将宪章上传至网络。
I draw to better understand things.	我画画是为了把事情弄得更明白
Now, why would I care about Rome, particularly?	为什么是罗马不是别的什么呢？
I also make drawings to help people understand things.	我画画来帮大家理解一些东西
Things that I want them to believe I understand.	希望人们相信我懂那些东西。
And that's what I do as an illustrator, that's my job.	这就是插图画家的工作。我的本行。
So, I'm going to show you some pictures of Rome.	所以让你们看看罗马的一些画
I've made a lot of drawings of Rome over the years.	这些年来我画了许多罗马的画
These are sketches of some of the little details.	一些小细节就这样被记录下来。
Part of the reason for that is the fact that they grew up organically.	或许因为人们让它有机地成长。
And I began to think about how I could communicate this in book form.	我寻思如何让读者身临其境。
Sort of an overview of Rome and the plan that you might see from a dirigible.	比如你在飞船上鸟瞰罗马的景象。
Went to Alberto Santos-Dumont.	找了找航空先驱杜蒙的资料
She continues on her way over Piazza Navona.	她则继续游览到了那佛那广场
So that sort of brings her little story to a conclusion.	她的小故事看来要告一段落了。
So, the alarm goes off and it's five to 12 or so.	闹钟响的时候已经12点缺5分了。
Waiter catches on, but it's too late.	侍者反应过来了，不过为时已晚。
But he's not happy; something's wrong.	可是他并不开心--还缺点什么。
He's actually in television repair, which is why people know him.	大家都认识他是因为他负责修电视。
And of course, he also solves his own problem.	并且他也解决了自己的问题。
He's taught them to spell his name, which is Aldo.	他曾经教鸽子们拼他的名字Aldo
And I thought that's a really cheery story.	这真是个让人高兴的故事。
And the pigeon is flying down above the Appian Way here.	信鸽沿着阿庇安公路上空飞过。
They're far more efficient in terms of energy.	它们在能源方面更加高效。
And they can repair themselves for longevity.	他们能自我修复保持长寿。
They're embedded with mechanical electrical devices, sensors.	它们嵌入机电设备，传感器。
And then it gives you an output in 3D space.	接着它会给出三维空间的输出。
So basically you have a chain of elements.	基本上就是你有了一连串的元素。
You're telling each unit if it should turn right or left.	要告诉每个单元是要左转还是右转。
So what does this tell us about the future?	这向我们预示了怎样的未来呢？
And from that you have new possibilities for computing.	从中你能获得计算的新可能性。
He came up with a name for his mystery agent.	他给这个神秘的东西起了个名字
Basically we have no clue what this is.	我们基本上对这些一无所知。
At first we thought that perhaps this was artifact.	开始我们以为这是人为的东西。
And so what does that look like? Typical.	那里看上去是什么样子呢？典型的。
So can we have the lights off, please, so we can see it?	请将电灯关闭，我们就可以看到了。
That's how big and how dark the universe is.	宇宙就是如此的巨大和如此的黑暗。
Now, our environment is inundated with evidence.	我们的环境中充满了证据。
At the moment, these things are fringe research.	而目前，这些都只是边缘研究。
It poses a very fascinating puzzle for us.	它带给我们一个极具吸引力的谜。
Let's just pick one -- for example, the one in the green shirt.	拿那个穿绿衬衫的学生做例子，
The president has seen how those rules worked well.	总统已经领会到制度运行良好
But, it's useful to present the opposition between these two.	但，两者间的对立还是有必要解释的
They want the choice to be able to continue consuming subsidized electric power.	希望可以继续享用补贴电价的自由
Now, Nelson also has access to the Internet.	Nelson现在还可以享用互联网
With that charter, people will move there.	在这样的纲领下，人们会移居那里
And we can scale this model.	我们还可以改善这个模型的规模
We also need the choices for people.	我们还需要给人们自由去选择
The final thing we need are choices for leaders.	最后，我们需要给领导者自由去选择
Let us have a Hong Kong nearby.	让我们附近有一个像香港一样的城市
Now, where else might this model be tried?	现在，还有哪里尝试过这个模型？
Well, Africa. I've talked with leaders in Africa.	非洲。我曾和非洲的领导者沟通过
It's a rule for changing rules.	这是个为改变体制而建立的体制
This is a picture I took when I was flying along the coast.	这张照片是我在海湾上空拍摄的
So let me show you why that's wrong.	让我来告诉你为什么这是错误的
They can get basic utilities like electricity.	可以有起码的公共服务，比如用电
You wouldn't let academics out in the wild.	你或许不让学者走出象牙塔
And we're in the process of sequencing all that at the present time.	目前我们正在对它们进行测序
And these vary tremendously from region to region.	不同区域之间，它们也差别巨大
This is actually just a microorganism.	这其实只不过是个微小的生物
So we started doing transposon mutagenesis.	于是我们开始做转座子的突变发生
The key is, how do you put all of the others?	关键是，如何把所有其他的放进来？
"One bite, Adam. Don't abandon Eve."	就一口，亚当。不要放弃夏娃
What happens is two-thirds of the kids give in to temptation.	但结果是3分之2的孩子屈服于诱惑
They didn't get in as much trouble. They were better students.	他们都没有任何问题，都是好学生
What determines any decision you make?	是什么促使你做出那些选择？
So that their decisions are based on past memories.	所以，他们基于过去的经验来做决定
So, very quickly, what is the optimal time profile?	那么，什么是最佳的时间洞察力呢？
Reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year.	路透社一年发布350万新闻故事
Is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years?	会在50年或者100年内有影响吗
Britain will starve without genetically modified crops.	没有转基因作物，英国人会挨饿
It seems that with or without us, life will go on.	好像有没有我们生命都会继续
In the next 18 minutes, I'm going to take you on a journey.	在接下来的18分钟里，我会带大家
Now, the Saturn system is a rich planetary system.	现在，土星是一个丰饶的行星系统。
Saturn is accompanied by a very large and diverse collection of moons.	土星被一组庞大而多样的卫星所环绕
Now, two of the 47 moons that Saturn has are standouts.	土星47个卫星中有两个是很突出的
The temperature at the surface is some 350 degrees below zero Fahrenheit.	土星地面气温仅为零下350华氏度
So it was -- I mean, I'm getting goose bumps just talking about it.	一说的这儿，我都起鸡皮疙瘩了
It was an unambiguous pattern, a geological pattern.	这是一个清晰的、地理的图像
It's a dendritic drainage pattern that can be formed only by the flow of liquids.	这种树枝状的格局只会是水流形成的
And they converge into this channel here, which drains into this region.	水道进入这个流域后又注入那个地区
Was this a shoreline of fluids? We didn't know.	是液态的吗？我们不得而知
This picture is taken at 16 kilometers.	这张照片是在16千米的高空拍摄的
If you were going to take an airplane trip across the U.S., you would be flying at these altitudes.	这大约就是在美国的飞机飞行高度
What the probe came down in was basically the Titan equivalent of a mud flat.	实际上这是土卫六版的泥巴地
This is an unconsolidated ground that is suffused with liquid methane.	这片疏松的土地上充满了液态的甲烷
This is the Saharan desert of Titan.	可以称得上是土卫六的撒哈拉
It's obviously a place which is very dry, or you wouldn't get dunes.	很明显，要是不干燥就不会有沙丘
And there is a lake scene in the south polar region of Titan.	这是一张土卫六南极湖区的景致
And Enceladus is very white, it's very bright, and its surface is obviously wrecked with fractures.	土卫二很白，很亮其地表充满断裂层
And they're a different color because they're a different composition.	这块儿颜色不一样是因为组成不同
They are coated. These fractures are coated with organic materials.	这些断层上附着这有机物质
So we have, possibly, liquid water, organic materials and excess heat.	可能是液体，有机物或余热
It is a total eclipse of the Sun, seen from the other side of Saturn.	这是土星另一面看到的日蚀
Why aren't Palestinians using nonviolent resistance?	为什么巴勒斯坦人不采用非暴力抵抗
Today you're invited to a peaceful march.	今天我号召大家加入一场和平的游行
They were allowed to use any force necessary.	他们被允许采用一切必要的强制手段
Yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories.	然而媒体对这些事件几乎只字未提
So we organized a screening.	于是我们在那里组织播放了纪录片
And theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation.	这种影响能够最终将冲突化解
The U.N. wanted to rush people and supplies to the area.	联合国想调度人员、物资进入灾区
That guides you back to the location that you want to remember.	这个过程便可让你回到"老地方"。
And grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space.	网状细胞可以使视点穿透那个空间。
And yet, they're just a computer company.	而其实他们只是一家电脑公司。
They're just like everyone else.	他们跟其他公司没有任何分别，
About three and a half years ago I made a discovery.	大概三年半之前，我有了个新发现，
As it turns out, there's a pattern.	那就是我发现了一种模式，
And it's the complete opposite to everyone else.	但是跟所有其他人的方式完全相反。
Why? How? What?	为什么？怎么做？是什么？
Let me define the terms really quickly.	我来尽快地解释一下这些术语。
Why do you get out of bed in the morning?	你每天早上是为什么而起床？
Want to buy one?" "Meh."	你想买一台吗？"不怎么样吧。
But it's uninspiring.	但是这些推销词一点劲都没有。
A few years ago, Gateway came out with flat screen TVs.	几年前，捷威公司推出了平板电视。
They're eminently qualified to make flat screen TVs.	他们制造平板电视的能力很强，
Nobody bought one.	但是没有人买他们的平板电视。
This is where gut decisions come from.	这就是那些发自内心的决定的来源。
He wanted to be rich, and he wanted to be famous.	他想要发财，他想要成名。
The others just worked for the paycheck.	另一边的人则是为了工资而工作。
We found out about it a few days later.	我们是在几天后才知道的。
That's how we describe them, right?	对，我们一般这样形容他们。
First, the famous failure.	首先我们讲这个失败的例子。
But TiVo's a commercial failure.	但是蒂沃是个商业上的失败案例，
Now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation.	下面我给大家介绍一个成功的例子。
In fact, some of his ideas were bad.	实际上，他的一些想法甚至不正确。
He went around and told people what he believed.	他只是到处告诉别人他所相信的。
They showed up for themselves.	他们是为了他们自己而去的。
I have no idea where the nearest food pantry is.	我不知道哪里能弄到吃的，
This aspiration that our healthcare keep us healthy is an enormously powerful one.	这个渴望是一个很强有力的渴望。
It's just a set of choices that people make.	只是人们做的一系列选择。
And we chose to use the prescription for that purpose.	所以我们选择以这个目的来开处方。
And of course all of this requires a broader workforce.	当然这需要很多的劳动力。
But if we're creative, we already have that too.	但如果我们有创意，我们已经有了。
And the thing is, there's thousands of these folks already out there.	所以，成千上万的人已经到了。
And I'll be honest, all I wanted was for him to not be angry at me.	我是诚实的我只是他不是生我的气。
I just wanted a blessing, I didn't want some kind of mandate.	我只想要祝福，我不想要命令。
We go into the Cold War, and we continue to try and build walls.	进入冷战，我们继续建造围墙。
This is a famous bridge in Europe.	在欧洲有一个很著名的桥。
Now, I'm a sailor, obviously.	现在，很明显我是一个水手。
This is a ship, a liner, clipping through the Indian Ocean.	有一个船在印度洋上航行。
Here are photographs of two young men.	这里有两个年轻人的照片。
It was built in the jungles of South America.	它在南美热带雨林中被建造，
This is a field of poppies in Afghanistan.	在阿富汗有一片罂粟花的，
We also see there, of course, terrorism.	当然，我们也看到了恐怖组织。
This is where al Qaeda is staged from.	这就是基地组织建立的地方。
We will need the application of military force.	我们需要军事力量的综合应用。
When we do it, we must do it well, and competently.	当我们使用时，我们就必须使用好。
They're all part of this.	他们都是这个项目的一部分。
"Mom, I see the world."	"妈妈，我看到世界了。"
Now, let me hit a somber note.	现在，让我说一个严肃的消息。
This is a photograph of a brave British soldier.	这是一个勇敢的英国士兵的照片。
But, you know, life is not an on-and-off switch.	但你知道，生活不是开关。
I would argue life is a rheostat.	我认为生活是一个可变电阻器，
So we are very encouraged by these results.	因此，这些结果使我们深受鼓舞。
